OTHER HARPER SAN FRANCISCO 
BOOKS BY THOMAS CLEARY 
The Essential TtUJ: 
An Initiation into the Heart of Taoism 
through the Authentic 1iuJ Te Ching and 
the Inner Teachings of Chuang Tzu 
The Essential Confocius: 
The Heart of Confucius' Teachings 
in Authentic I Ching Order The Secret of 
the Golden Flower 
The Classic Chinese Book of Lifo 
Translated, with Introduction, 
Notes, and Commentary by 
Thomas Cleary 
, 
HarperOne 
A Division ofHarperColiinsPllbluhers ~ 
H:uperOne 
THE SECRET OF THE GOLDEN FLOWER: 
The Classic Chinese Book of Lift. 
Copyright © 1991 by Thomas Cleary. 
All rights reserved. 
Printed in the United States of America. 
Na part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner 
whatsoever without written permission except in the case of brief 
quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews. For informarion 
address HarperCollins Publishers, 10 East 53rd Street, 
New York, NY 10022. 
HarperCollins books may be purchased for educarional, business, 
or sales promotional use. For information please write: Special Markets 
Department, HarperCollins Publishers, 10 Ease 53rd Street, 
New York, NY 10022. 
HarperCollins Web site: hrtp:llwww.harpercollins.com 
HarperCollins®, .0, and HarpcrOneTh! are trademarks of 
HarperColiins Publishers. 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Lil, Tung-pin, b. 798 
[T'ai i chin hua tsung chih. English] 
The secret of the golden flower I translated, 
with introduction, notes, and commentary, by 
Thomas Cleary. -1st ed. 
p. cm. 
Translation of: T'ai i chin hua tsung chih. 
ISBN: 978-0-06-250193-6 
1. Spiritual life (Taoism) 2. Spiritual life (Buddhism) 
1. Cleary, Thomas E, 1949- II. Tide. 
BL1923.L78 1991 
299'.5144-dc20 90-55796 
08 09 10 11 11ART 20 19 Contents 
Introduction 
1 
The Secret of the Golden Flower 
7 
Translation Notes 
73 
1i"anslator's Afterword: 
Modern Applications of the 
Golden Flower Method 
131 
Works Cited 
154 Introduction 
Natumlness is called the Way. 
The Wayhasnonameorjimn; 
;tisjustthe~~ 
just the primal spirit. 
he Secret of the Golden 
Flower is a lay manual of Buddhist and Taoist methods for 
clarifYing the mind. A distillation of the inner psycho­
active elements in ancient spiritual classics, it describes a 
natural way to mental freedom practiced in China ror 
many centuries. 
The golden flower symbolizes the quintessence of the 
paths of Buddhism and Taoism. Gold stands ror light, the 
light of the mind itself; the flower represents the blossom­
ing, or opening up, of the light of the mind. Thus the 
expression is emblematic of the basic awakening of the 
real self and its hidden potential. 
In Taoist terms, the first goal of the Way is to restore 
the original God-given spirit and become a self-realized 
human being. In Buddhist terms, a realized human being 
is someone conscious of the original mind, or the real 
self, as it is in its spontaneous natural state, independent 
of environmental conditioning. 
This original spirit is also called the celestial mind, or 
the natural mind. A mode of awareness subtler and more 
direct than thought or imagination, it is central to the 
1 2 
blossoming of the mind. The Secret of the Golden Flmver 
is devoted to the recovery and refinement of the original 
spirit. 
This manual contains a number of helpful meditation 
techniques, but its central method is deeper than a form 
of meditation. Using neither idea nor image, it is a pro­
cess of gerting right to the root source of awareness itself. 
The aim of this exercise is to free the mind from arbitrary 
and unnecessary limitations imposed upon it by habitual 
fixation on its own contents. With this liberation, Taoists 
say, the conscious individual becomes a "partner of 
creation" rather than a prisoner of creation. 
The experience of the blossoming of the golden 
flower is likened to light in the sky, a sky of awareness 
vaster than images, thoughts, and feelings, an unimpeded 
space containing everything without being filled. Thus it 
opens up an avenue to an endless source of intuition, 
creativity, and inspiration. Once this power of mental 
awakening has been developed, it can be renewed and 
deepened without limit. 
The essential practice of the golden flower requires no 
apparatus, no philosophical or religious dogma, no special 
paraphernalia or ritual. It is practiced in the course of 
daily life. It is near at hand, being in the mind itself, yet it 
involves no imagery or thought. It is remote only in the 
sense that it is a use of attention generally unfumiliar to 
the mind habituated to imagination and thinking. 
The Secret of the Golden Flmver is remarkable for the 
sharpness of its focus on a very direct method for self­
realization accessible to ordinary lay people. When it was 
written down in a crisis more than two hundred years 3 
ago, it was a concentrated revival of an ancient teaching; 
and it has been periodically revived in crises since, due 
to the rapidity with which the method can awaken 
awareness of hidden resources in the mind. 
The Secret of the Golden Flmver is the first book of its 
kind to have been translated into a Western language. A 
German version by Richard Wilhelm was first published 
in 1929, and an English translation of this German rendi­
tion was published shortly thereafter. Both German and 
English editions included an extensive commentary by 
the distinguished psychologist C. G. J ung, whose work 
became a major influence in Western psychology, studies 
of mythology and religion, and New Age culture in general. 
Although J ung credited The Secret of the Golden Flmver 
with having clarified his own work on the unconscious, 
he maintained serious reservations about the practice 
taught in the book. What Jung did not know was that 
the text he was reading was in fuct a garbled translation 
of a truncated version of a corrupted recension of the 
original work. 
Unawares, a critical communication gap occurred in 
the process oftransmission; and yet the book made a 
powerful impression. It became one of the main sources 
of Western knowledge of Eastern spirituality and also one 
of the seminal influences in Jungian thought on the 
psychology of religion. Cary F. Baynes, who rendered 
Wilhelm's German into English, even went so fur as to 
hail it as "the secret of the power of growth latent in the 
psyche?' 
Psychological and experiential approaches to religion 
have enriched modern psychological thought and 4 
research, which have in turn enriched the understanding 
and experience of religion. In terms of religion as culture, 
one of the advantages of a psychological approach is the 
facility with which emotional boundaries of church and 
sect can thereby be transcended. 
In Wilhelm's own introduction to his translation of 
The Secret of the Golden Flower, he notes that Taoist organi­
zations following this teaching in his time included not 
only Confucians and Buddhists but also Jews, Christians, 
and Muslims, all without requiring them to break away 
from their own religious congregations. So fundamental 
is the golden flower awakening that it brings out inner 
dimensions in all religions. 
From the point of view of that central experience, it 
makes no more dif!erence whether one calls the golden 
flower awakening a relationship to God or to the Way, or 
whether one calls it the holy spirit or the Buddha nature 
or the real self. The Tao Te Ching says, "Names can be 
designated, but they are not fixed terms." 
The image of the opening up of the golden flower of 
the light in the mind is used as but one of many ways of 
alluding to an ef!ect that is really ineffilble. The pragmatic 
purpose of Taoist and Buddhist teachings is to elicit expe­
rience, not to inculcate doctrines; that is why people of 
other religions, or with no religion at all, have been able 
to avail themselves of the psychoactive technologies of 
Taoism and Buddhism without destroying their own 
cultural identities. 
Considered in terms of its essential aim rather than 
the forms it can take, the golden flower method can be 
used to transcend the barriers of personal and cultural 5 
dif!erences without losing the richness of diversity and 
distinction. 
The Secret of the Golden Flower is indeed a powerful trea­
tise on awakening the hidden potential of a universal 
human being, and it is in reality an even better and more 
useful book than Wilhelm, Jung, or Baynes thought it to 
be. However immature his rendition may have been, I am 
deeply indebted to Richard Wilhelm for introducing this 
extraordinary text to the West, for it could otherwise have 
gone unnoticed for decades, even centuries, amidst the 
hundreds upon hundreds of Taoist and Buddhist treatises 
awaiting translation. 
It can therefore be said that it is because of Wilhelm's 
efforts that this new English version of The Secret of the 
Golden Flower has come into being. It is to further 
inquiries into ways of approaching universal psychology 
and mental wholeness in general, and to further inquiries 
into development of the researches initiated by Wilhelm 
and Jung in their presentation of this book in particular, 
that I have undertaken to follow up on their work with 
a new and complete rendition of The Seem of the Golden 
Flower. 
Because the still-current Wilhelm/Jung/Baynes edition 
of this manual contains dangerous and misleading con­
taminations, a primary consideration of the new transla­
tion was to make the contents of The Seem of the Golden 
Flower explicitly accessible to both lay and specialist 
audiences. This is partly a matter of translation and partly 
a matter of presentation. 
The text itself is somewhat like a series of explanations 
of practical meanings in esoteric terminology for the use 6 
of lay people. To this have been added selections trans­
lated from a canonical Chinese Taoist commentary that 
further refines the principles into pragmatic observations 
divested of the outward forms of religious and alchemical 
symbolism. The translation notes explain the expressions, 
ideas, and practices to which the text refers. The after­
word joins the beginning and the end, from the back­
ground of th~ translations to the psychological 
implications of the praxis. 
I. 
II. 
III. 
IV. 
V. 
VI. 
VII. 
VIII. 
IX. 
X. 
XI. The Secret of 
the Golden Flower 
The Celestial Mind 
The Original Spirit and the Conscious Spirit 
Turning the Light Around and Keeping 
to the Center 
Turning the Light Around and Tuning 
the Breathing 
Errors in Turning the Light Around 
Authenticating Experiences of Turning 
the Light Around 
The Living Method of Turning 
the Light Around 
The Secret of Freedom 
Setting Up the Foundation in a 
Hundred Days 
The Light of Essence and the Light of 
Consciousness 
The In tercourse of Water and Fire 
XII. The Cycle 
XIII. Song to Inspire the World 
Questions and Answers Opening up the 
Mysteries ofthe Doctrine of the 9 
13 
17 
23 
31 
33 
37 
39 
49 
51 
55 
57 
61 
Golden Flower 65 
7 I 
The Celestial Mind 
1 Naturalness is called the Way. The Way has no name 
or form; it is just the essence, just the primal spirit. 
2 Essence and life are invisible, so they are associated 
with sky and light. Sky and light are invisible, so they 
are associated with the rwo eyes. 
3 Since ancient times, those who realized spiritual 
immortality all communicated their teaching verbally, 
transmitting it from individual to individual. 
4 Thishang appeared magically to Donghua, and the 
Way was handed on through a succession to Yan, 
then to the southern and northern schools of Com­
plete R.eality, which can be considered its full 
flourishing. 
5 That movement flourished in the sense that there 
were a great many who followed it, yet it declined in 
the sense that its menral communication deterio­
rated. This has continued up to the present day, 
when it is extremely confused and extremely 
degenerate. 
9 10 
6 When an extreme is reached, there is a reversion. 
Therefore there was a certain master Siu who 
extended his kindness to liberate all, especially setting 
up the teaching of the special transmission outside of 
doctrine. For those who heard, it was a rare opportu­
nity; those who accepted it formed a religious associ­
ation in their time. Everyone should respectfully 
understand the heart of master Siu. 
7 First establish a firm foothold in daily activities 
within society. Only then can you cultivate reality 
and understa[1,: essence. 
8 In obedience to a directive, I am acting as a guide to 
liberation. Now I am bringing to light the source 
message of the golden flower of absolute unity. After 
that I will explain in detail. 
9 The absolute unity refers to what cannot be sur­
passed. There are very many alchemical teachings, 
but all of them make temporary use of effort to arrive 
at effortlessness; they are not teachings of total tran­
scendence and direct penetration. The doctrine I 
transmit directly brings up working with essence and 
does not fall into a secondary method. That is the 
best thing about it. 
10 The golden flower is light. What color is light? It is 
symbolized by the golden flower, which [in Chinese 
characters 1 also conceals [the words 1 one [;ght within. 
This is the absolutely unified real energy of celestial 
immortals; this is what is meant by the saying, "The 
lead in the homeland of water is just one flavor:' 11 
11 The whole work of turning the light around uses the 
method of reversal. The beauties of the highest 
heavens and the marvels of the sublimest realms are 
all within the heart: this is where the perfectly open 
and aware spirit concentrates. Confucians call it the 
open center, Buddhists call it the pedestal of aware­
ness, Taoists call it the ancestral earth, the yellow 
court, the mysterious pass, rhe primal opening. 
12 The celestial mind is like a house; the light is the 
master of the house. Therefore once you turn the 
light around, the energies throughout the body all 
rise. Just turn the light around; this is the unexcelled 
sublime truth. 
13 The light is easily stirred and hard to stabilize. When 
you have turned it around for a long time, the light 
crystallizes. This is the narural spiritual body, and it 
steadies the spirit above the nine skies. This is what is 
referred to in the Mind Seal Scripture as "silently pay­
ing court" and "soaring upward." 
14 The golden flower is the same thing as the gold pill. 
The transmutations of spiritual illumination are all 
guided by mind. II 
The Original Spirit and 
the Conscious Spirit 
1 From the point of view of the universe, people are 
like mayflies; but from the point of view of the Way, 
even the universe is as an evanescent reflection. Only 
the true essence of the original spirit transcends the 
primal organization and is above it. 
2 Vitality and energy degenerate along with the uni­
verse, but the original spirit is still there; this is the 
infinite. The production of the universe all derives 
from this. If learners can just preserve the original 
spirit, they live transcendentally outside of yin and 
yang. They are not within the three realms. 
3 This is possible only by seeing essence. This is what is 
called the original face. 
4 What is most wondrous is when the light has crystal­
lized in a spiritual body, gradually becoming con­
sciously effective, and is on the verge of moving into 
action. This is the secret that has not been transmit­
ted in a thousand ages. 
13 14 
5 The conscious mind is like a violent general of a 
strong fiefdom controlling things from a elistance, 
until the sword is turned around. 
6 Now steadily keep to the chamber of the origin,. . 
turning the light around to look back, and thiS IS lIke 
having a heroic leader on top With great mlllisters 
helping. Once the inner government is orderly, the 
strong and violent naturally become tame. 
7 The highest secrets of alchemy are the water of . 
vitality, the fire of spirit, and the earth of attention. 
S The water of vitality is the energy of the primal real 
unity. The fire of spirit is illumination. The earth of 
attention is the chamber of the center, the celestial 
mind. 
9 The fire of spirit is the function, the earth of atten­
tion is the substance, the water of vitality is the 
foundation. 
10 People create the body by attention. The body is not 
just the physical body, becaus: the.re is a l~w~r sou.I 
therein. The lower soul functions 111 assoCIation With 
consciousness, and consciousness develops based on 
the lower soul. The lower soul is elim; it is the sub­
stance of consciousness. If consciousness is not inter­
rupted, transformation and transmutation of the 
lower soul go on endlessly from lifetime to lIfetime, 
generation to generation. 15 
11 Then there is the higher soul, which is where the 
spirit is concealed. The higher soul resides in the eyes 
during the day and lodges in the liver at night. When 
it resides in the eyes, it sees; when it lodges in the 
liver, it dreams. 
12 Dreams are the roaming of the spirit. It traverses the 
nine heavens and nine earths in an instant. If you are 
dull and depressed on awakening, that is a sign of 
clinging to the body, which means clinging to the 
lower soul. 
13 So turning the light around is a means of refining the 
higher soul, which is a means of preserving the spirit, 
which is a means of controlling the lower soul, which 
is a means of interrupting consciousness. 
14 The ancients' method of transceneling the world, 
refining away the dregs of darkness to restore pure 
light, is just a matter of elissolving the lower soul and 
making the higher soul whole. 
15 Turning the light around is the secret of elissolving 
darkness and controlling the lower soul. There is no 
exercise to restore the creative, only the secret of turn­
ing the light around. The light itself is the creative; to 
turn it around is to restore it. 
16 Just persist in this method, and naturally the water of 
vitality will be full, the fire of spirit will ignite, the 
earth of attention will stabilize, and thus the embryo 
of sagehood can be solielified. 16 
17 A dung beetle rolls a pill of dung, from ,,;hich life .. 
by the pure effort of concentration of spmt. 
eme~~, Id· If life can come even from a dung ball, how cou. It 
not be possible to produce a body by concentratmg 
the spirit on where the celestial mind rests when the 
embryo leaves the shell? 
18 Once the true nature of unified awareness has ~en 
into the chamber of the creative, it divides into h.lgher 
and lower souls. The higher soul is in the celestial . 
mind; this is yang, energy that is light and clear. This 
is obtained from cosmic space and has the. sa~e form 
as the original beginning. The lower soul IS ym, 
energy that is dense and opaque. This sticks to the 
ordinary mind that has form. 
19 The higher soul likes life, the lower soull~ks tow~rd 
death. All lust affecting the temperament IS t~e domg 
of the lower soul. This is what consciousness IS. A~er 
death it feeds on blood, in life it suffers greatly. This 
is darkness returning to darkness, by a coming 
together of kind. 
20 If learners refine the dark lower soul completely, then 
it will be pure light. III 
Turning the Light 
Around and Keeping 
to the Center 
1 Where did the term turning the tight around begin? It 
began with the adept Wenshi. When the light is 
turned around, the energies of heaven and earth, yin 
and yang, all congeal. This is what is called "refined 
thought," "pure energy;' or "pure thought." 
2 When you first put this technique into practice, there 
is seemingly non being within being. Eventually, 
when the work is accomplished, and there is a body 
beyond your body, there i~ seemingly being within 
nonbeing. 
3 Only after a hundred days of concentrated work is 
the light real; only then is it the fire of spirit. After a 
hundred days, the light is spontaneous: a point of 
true positive energy suddenly produces a pearl, just 
as an embryo forms ftom the intercourse of a man 
and a woman. Then you should attend it calmly and 
quietly. The turning around of the light is the "firing 
process." 
17 18 
4 In the original creation there is positive light, which 
is the ruling director. In the material world it is the 
sun; in human beings it is the eyes. Nothing is worse 
than to have a running leakage of spirit and con­
sciousness; this is conformity, so the way of the 
golden flower is accomplished completely thtough 
the method of reversal. 
S Turning the light around is not turning around the 
light of one body, but turning aro~nd the very . 
energy of Creation. It is not stoppmg random Imagt­
nation only temporarily; it is truly emptying routine 
compulsion for all time. 
6 Therefore each breath corresponds to one year of 
human time; and each· breath corresponds to a cen­
tury in the various pathways of the long night of 
ignorance. 
7 Usually people wind up pursuing objects and come 
to age in conformity with life, never once looking 
back. When their positive energy fades and disap­
pears, this is the netherworld. Therefore the Heroic 
March Scripture says, "Pure thought is flight, pure 
emotion is fall." When students have little thought 
and much emotion, they sink into low ways. Just 
observe clearly, and when your breath grows quiet 
you then become accurately aware. This is application 
ofthe method of reversal. 19 
8 This is what is meant in the Yin Omvergence C/arsic 
when it says, "The mechanism is in the eyes;' and the 
Plain QuestUms of the Yellow Emperor when it says, 
"The light rays ofthe human body all flow upward 
into the aperture of space:' If you get this, long life is 
herein, and so is transcendence of life. 
9 This is a practice that pervades the three teachings. 
10 The light is neither inside nor outside the self. 
Mountains, rivers, sun, moon, and the whole earth 
are all this light, so it is not only in the self. All the 
operations of intelligence, knowledge, and wisdom 
are also this light, so it is not outside the self. The 
light of heaven and earth fills the universe; the light 
of one individual also naturally extends through the 
heavens and covers the earth. Therefore once you 
turn the light around, everything in the world is 
turned around. 
11 The light rays are concentrated upward into the eyes; 
this is the great key of the human body. You should 
reflect on this. If you do not sit quietly each day, this 
light flows and whirls, stopping who knows where. If 
you can sit quietly for a while, all time-ten thousand 
ages, a thousand lifetimes-is penetrated from this. 
All phenomena revert to stillness. Truly inconceivable 
is this sublime truth. 20 
12 Nevertheless, the actual practice goes from shallow to 
deep, from crude to fine. Throughout, it is best to be 
consistent. The practice is one from beginning to 
end, but its quality during the process can be known 
only by oneself. Nevertheless, it is necessary to wind 
up at the point where "heaven is open, earth is 
broad, and all things are just as they are;' for only 
this can be considered attainment. 
13 What has been communicated through successive 
sages is not beyond reversed gazing. Confucians call it 
"reaching toward knowledge.» Buddhists call it 
"observing mind?' Taoists call it "inner observation." 
14 The essential teaching is summatized above; asfor 
the rest, matters of entering and exiting stillness, the 
prelude and the aftermath, one should use the book 
SmaU Stopping and Seeing for a touchstone. 
15 The words focw on the center are most sublime. The 
center is omnipresent; the whole universe is within 
it. This indicates the mechanism of Creation; you 
focus on this to enter the gate, that is all. To focus 
means to focus on this as a hint, not to become 
rigidly fixated. The meaning of the wordfocw has life 
to it; it is very subtle. 21 
16 The terms stopping and seeing basically cannot be sepa­
rated. They mean concentration and insight. Here­
a~er, whenever thoughts arise, you don't need to sit 
stIli as before, but you should investigate this 
thought: where is it? Where does it come from? 
Where does it disappear? Push this inquity on and on 
over and over until you realize it cannot be grasped' 
then you, will see where the thought arises. You do~'t 
~;ed t? seek out the point of arising any more. 
HaVIng looked for my mind, 1 realize it cannot be 
grasped.' 'I have pacified your mind for you.'» 
17 This is correct seeing; whatever is contraty to thi . ~ . 0 s~ se seeIng. nce you reach this ungraspability, then 
as be.fore ~ou con~Inuously practice stopping and 
contInue. It by seeIng, practice seeing and continue it 
by ~toPPIng. This is twin cultivation of stopping and 
seemg. ThiS IS turning the light around. 
18 The t~rnin~ around is stopping, the light is seeing. 
St.oppmg .Without seeing is called turning around 
~th?ut Ii~t; seeing without stopping is called hav­
mg light Without turning it around. Remember this. IV 
Turning the Light 
Around and Tuning 
the Breathing 
1 The doctrine just requires single-minded practice. 
One does not seek experiential proof, but experien­
tial proof comes of itself. 
2 On the whole, beginners suffer from two kinds of 
problems: oblivion and distraction. There is a device 
to get rid ofthem, which is simply to rest the mind 
on the breath. 
3 The breath is one's own mind; one's own mind does 
the breathing. Once mind stirs, the~ there is energy. 
Energy is basically an emanation of mind. 
4 Our thoughts are very rapid; a single random 
thought takes place in a moment, whereupon an 
exhalation and inhalation respond to it. Therefore 
inward breathing and outward breathing accompany 
each other like sound and echo. In a single day one 
breathes countless times, so has countless random 
thoughts. When the luminosiry of spirit has leaked 
out completely, one is like a withered tree or dead 
ashes. 
23 24 
5 So should one have no thoughts? It is impossible to 
have no thoughts. Should one not breathe? It is 
impossible not to breathe. Nothing compares to 
making the affliction itself into medicine, which 
means to have mind and breath rest on each other. 
Therefore tuning the breath should be included in 
turning the light around. 
6 This method makes use of two lights. One is the 
light of the ears, one is the light ofthe eyes. The 
light of the eyes means the external sun and moon, 
combining their lights; the light of the ears means 
the internal sun and moon, combining their vitali­
ties. However, vitaliry is congealed and stabilized 
light; "they have the same source but different 
names." Therefore clarity of hearing and seeing are 
both one and the same spiritual light. 
7 When you sit, lower your eyelids and then establish a 
point of reference. Now let go. But if you let go abso­
lutely, you may not be able to simultaneously keep 
your mind on listening to your breathing. 
8 You should not allow your breathing to actually be 
audible; just listen to its soundlessness. Once there is 
sound, you are buoyed by the coarse and do not 
enter the fine. Then be patient and lighten up a little. 
The more you let go, the greater the subtlery; and 
the greater the subtlety, the deeper the quietude. 25 
9 Eventually, after a long time, all of a sudden even the 
subtle will be interrupted and the true breathing will 
appear, whereupon the substance of mind will 
become perceptible. 
10 This is because when mind is subtle breath is subtle· , , 
when mind is unified, it moves energy. When breath 
is subtle, mind is subtle; when energy is unified, it 
moves mind. Stabilization of mind must be preceded 
by development of energy because the mind has no 
place to set to work on; so focus on energy is used as 
a starting point. This is what is called the preserva­
tion of pure energy. 
11 You don't understand the meaning of the word muve­
ment. Movement is pulling the strings; the word 
movement is another word fur control. Since you can 
cause movement by vigorous action, how could you 
not be able to cause stillness by pure quietude? 
12 The great sages saw the interrelation of mind and 
energy and skillfully set up an expedient for the 
benefit of people of later times. An alchemical text 
says, ''The hen embraces the egg, always mentally 
listening." These are the finest instructions. The way 
a hen can give life to an egg is through warm energy; 
warm energy can only warm the shell and cannot 
penetrate the inside, so she mentally conducts the 
energy inward. That "listening" is single-minded con­
centration. When the mind enters, the energy enters; 
with warm energy, the birth takes place. 26 
13 Therefore even though the mother hen goes out 
from time to time, she is always listening, and the 
concentration of her spirit is never interrupted. Since 
the concentration of the spirit is never interrupted, 
then the warm energy is also uninterrupted day and 
night, so the spirit comes alive. 
14 The life ofthe spirit comes from the prior death of 
the mind. If people can kill the mind, the original 
comes alive. Killing the mind does not mean 
quietism, it means undivided concentration. Buddha 
said "Place the mind on one point, and everythmg , 
can be done:' 
15 Ifthe mind tends to run off, then unify it by means 
ofthe breath; if the breath tends to become rough, 
then use the mind to make it fine. If you do this, 
how can the mind fail to stabilize? 
16 Generally speaking, the two afllictions of oblivion 
and distraction just require quieting practice to con­
tinue unbroken day after day until complete cessation 
and rest occur spontaneously. When you are not sit­
ting quietly, you may be distracted without knowing 
it; but once you are aware of it, distraction itself 
becomes a mechanism for getting rid of distraction. 
17 As for unawares oblivion and oblivion of which you 
become aware, there is an inconceivable distance 
between them. Unawares oblivion is real oblivion; 
oblivion that you notice is not completely oblivious. 
Clear light is in this. 27 
18 Distraction means the spirit is racing; oblivion means 
the spirit is unclear. Distraction is easy to cure; obliv­
ion is hard to heal. Using the metaphor of illness, 
one that involves pain or itch can be treated with 
medicine, but oblivion is a symptom of paralysis, 
where there is no feeling. 
19 A distracted mind can be concentrated, and a con­
fused mind can be set in order; but oblivion is 
unformed darkness, in contrast to distraction, which 
still has some direction. 
20 Oblivion means the lower soul is in complete con­
trol, whereas the lower soul is a lingering presence in 
distraction. Oblivion is ruled by pure darkness and 
negativity. 
21 When you are sitting quietly, if you become drowsy, 
this is oblivion. Repelling oblivion is simply a matter 
of tuning the breath. The "breath" in this case is 
respiration, not the "true breathing:' Nevertheless 
the true breathing is present within it. 
22 Whenever you sit, yo~ should quiet your mind and 
unify your energy. How is the mind quieted? The 
mechanism is in the breathing, but the mind alone 
knows you are breathing out and in; do not let the 
ears hear. When you don't hear it, the breathing is 
fine; and when breathing is fine, the mind is clear. If 
you can hear it, the breathing is rough, which means 
the mind is cloudy. Cloudiness means oblivion, so it 
is natural to feel sleepy. Even so, the mind should be 
kept on the breathing. 28 
23 It is also essential to understand that this device is 
not mechanical or forced. Just maintain a subtle 
looking and listening. 
24 What is "looking"~ It is the light of the eyes spon­
taneously shining, the eyes only looking inward and 
not outward. Not looking outward yet being alert is 
inward looking; it is not that there really is such a 
thing as looking inward. 
25 What is "listening"? It is the light of the ears spon­
taneously listening, the ears only listening inward and 
not outward. Not listening outward yet being alert is 
inward listening; it is not that there really is such a 
thing as listening inward. 
26 Listening means listening to the soundless; looking 
means looking at the formless. 
27 When the eyes do not look outside and the ears do 
not listen outside, they are closed in and have a ten­
dency to tace around inside. Only by inward looking 
and listening can you prevent this inner tacing as well 
as oblivion in between. This is the meariing of sun 
and moon combining their vitalities and lights. 29 
28 When you sink into oblivion and become drows 
get up and tak alk Wh y, . . , e a w . ,en your spirit has cleared 
~lt agam. It s best to sit fur a while in the early mom: 
mg when you have free time. After noontime when 
the~. are many things to do, it's easy to f.ill in~o 
~blivlon. Al~o, ~here's no need to fix the length of 
~lme of meclitatlon; it is only essential to set aside all 
mvolvements and sit quietly fur a whl·'e E all .11 . . ventu y 
you WI attam absorption and not become oblivious 
or sleepy. v 
Errors in Turning the 
Light Around 
1 Even though your practice gradually matures, "there 
are many pitfalls in front of the cliff of withered trees." 
This makes it necessary to elucidate the experiences 
involved in detail. Only when you have personally 
gotten this fur do you know how I can talk of it now. 
2 Our school is not the same as Chan study in that we 
have step-by-step evidences of efficacy. Let us first 
talk about points of clistinction, then about 
evidences of efficacy. 
3 When you are going to practice this doctrine, first see 
to it somehow that you don't have much on your 
mind, so that you can be alive and free. Make your 
mood gentle and your mind comfortable, then enter 
into quietude. 
4 When you are quiet, it is then essential to find 
potential and find its opening; don't sit inside noth­
ingness or inclifference (so-called "neutral voidness"). 
31 32 
5 Even as you let go of all objects, you are alert and 
self-possessed. 
6 But don't get enthusiastic about attaining the experi­
ence. (Ihis easily happens whenever reality is taken 
too seriously. That means not that you shouldn't 
recognize reality, but that the rhythm of reality is on 
the brink of existence and nonexistence. You can get 
it by intent that is not willful.) 
7 
8 
9 Even in the midst of alert awareness, you are relaxed 
and natural. But don't full into the elements of body 
and mind, where material and psychological illusions 
take charge. If you tend to fall into a deadness when­
ever you go into meditation and are relatively lacking 
in growth and creative energy, this means you have 
fallen into a shadow world. Your mood is cold, your 
breath sinking, and you have a number of other chill­
ing and withering experiences. If you continue this 
way for a long time, you will degenerate into a block­
head or a rockhead. 
And yet it will not do to go along with all conditions. 
Once you have gone into quietude and all sorts of 
loose ends come to you for no apparent reason, you 
find you cannot tum them away if you want to, and 
you even feel comfortable going along with them. 
This is called the master becoming the servant. If this 
goes on long, you full into the various roads of the 
realms ofform and desire. 
10 Once you know this, you can seek experiential proofs. 1 
2 
3 VI 
A~thenticating 
Expenences of Turning 
the Light Around 
There are many authenticating experiences that can~ 
not b~ undergone responsibly by people with small 
fu~ultles and small capacities. You must will the liber-
ation of all beings' you cannot hand! . . ' e attamment 
With a careless or arrogant attitude. 
W.h~n there is uninterrupted continuity in quiet, the 
~pmt.and feelin~ are joyful and happy, as if one were 
mtoxlcated, or m a bath. This is called positive h -
mon di th I ar y perva ng e body, its go den efflorescence 
suddenly blooming. 
Once "myriad pipes are all silent" and "the b 'gh .. . ,n t 
moon IS m mid sky;' you feel the whole earth as a 
~alm o~ light. This is the opening up of the luminos­
Ity that IS the substance of mind, the proper release 
of the golden flower. 
33 34 
4 Once the whole body is filled completely, you do not 
fear wind or frost. When you meet things that make 
people feel desolate in facing them, your vital spirit 
shines even brighter. The house is built of yellow 
gold, the terrace is white jade; the rotten things of 
the world you bring to life with a puff of true energy. 
Red blood becomes milk, the physical body is all 
gold and jewels. This is the great stabilization of the 
golden flower. 
S The first stage corresponds to the Visualization Scrip­
turis technical symbols of the setting sun, the great 
body of water, and the trees in rows. The setting of 
the sun stands for setting up the foundation'in the 
undifferentiated; this is the infinite. "Higher good is 
like water;' flawlessly pure; this is the ultimate. The 
master is the ruler that produces movement, and 
since movement is symbolized by wood, it is repre­
sented by trees in rows. The rows are in sevens, 
which stand for the light of the seven openings 
of the "heart:' 
6 The second stage begins from the foundation; at this 
point the whole earth becomes a jewel ground of ice 
crystals; the light gradually solidifies. Therefore a 
great terrace follows. As for the Buddha on the ter­
race of enlightenment, once the golden essence has 
become manifest, what is it if not Buddha? Buddha is 
the "gold immortal" of great awareness. This is just 
the authenticating experience of the major stage. 35 
7 There are three authenticating expetiences that can 
be considered now. One is when you are sitting and 
the spirit enters into a state of openness, and then 
when you hear people talking it is as though from far 
away, but everything is clearly understood eVen 
though all sounds coming in are like echoes in a 
valley. All are heard, you have never heard anything 
yourself. This is the spirit in a state of openness; it 
can be experienced by oneself at any time. 
8 Another experience is when in the midst of quiet the 
light of the eyes blazes up, filling one's presence with 
light. It is like opening the eyes in a cloud. There is 
no way to look for one's body. This is "the empty 
room producing light." Inside and outside are per­
meated with light, auspicious signs hover in stillness. 
9 Yet another experience is when in the midst of quiet 
the energy of the physical body becomes like silk or 
jade; while sitting, if you don't stop it, the energy 
will soar buoyantly upward. This is the spirit return­
ing to the highest heaven. Eventually, after a long 
time, it is thereby possible to ascend. 
10 These three experiences can be verified now, but it is 
still not possible to explain them thoroughly. People 
experience higher things individually, according to 
their faculties and capacities. This is like what Swpping 
and Seeing calls the emerging manifestations of roots 
of good. 36 
11 These things are like when people drink water an? . 
know for themselves whether it is cooL or warm: It IS 
necessary for you to attain fuith on your own. Only 
then is the true primal unified energy present. 
12 If you find the unified energy yourself in aut~enticat­
ing experience, the elixir immediately crystaLlIzes. 
This is a grain of reality. "A grain, and then another 
grain, from vagueness to clarity." This n;fers to the. 
"primal grain" that buiL~S up t.hro~gh time; there IS 
also the total primaL gram, whIch IS measureless. 
13 Each grain has a grain's power. This requires individ­
ual fOrtitude above all. VII 
The Living 
Method of Turning 
the Light Around 
1 As you go along practicing turning the light around, 
you need not give up your normal occupation. An 
ancient said, "When matters come up, one should 
respond; when things come up, one should discern." 
2 If you manage affairs with accurate mindfulness, then 
the light is not overcome by things, so it will do to 
repeat this formless turning around of the light time 
.and again. 
3 If you can look back again and again into the source 
of mind, whatever you are ?oing, not sticking to any 
image of person or self at all, then this is "turning 
the light around wherever you are." This is the finest 
practice. 
4 In the early morning, if you can clear all objects from 
your mind and sit quietly for one or two hours, that 
is best. Whenever you are engaged in work or dealing 
with people, just use this "looking back" technique, 
and there will be no interruption. If you practice in 
this way fOr two or three months, the realized ones 
in Heaven will surely come to attest to your experience. 
37 VIII 
The Secret of 
Freedom 
1 Jadelike purity has left a secret offreedom 
In the lower world: 
Congeal the spirit in the lair of energy, 
And you'll suddenly see 
White snow flying in midsummer, 
The sun blazing in the water at midnight. 
Going along harmoniously, 
You roam in the heavens 
Then return to absorb 
The virtues of the receptive. 
2 There is another line, a mystery within a mystery: 
"The homeland of nothing whatsoever is the true 
abode." The depths of the mystery are all contained 
in a single measured verse. 
3 The essence of the great Way is to act purposefully 
without striving. Because of nonstriving, one does 
not cling to local conventions, forms, or images; but 
because of not striving yet acting purposefully, one 
does not full into indifferent emptiness, dead voidness. 
39 40 
4 The function is all in the center, but the mechanism 
is all in the two eyes. The two eyes are the handle of 
the stars, which manages Creation and operates yin 
and yang. 
5 The major medicinal ingredient beginning to end is 
only the "metal in the middle of primary water" (i.e., 
the "lead in the region of water"). The preceding talk 
of turning the light around points out a method for 
beginners to control the inside from outside, thus 
helping them to attain independence. 
6 This is fur middling and lesser people cultivating the 
lower two passes in order to penetrate the upper 
pass. Now as the Way gradually becomes clear and 
mastery of the device gradually matures, Heaven does 
not begrudge the Way but directly divulges the 
unsurpassed doctrine. Keep it confidential, and 
work it out. 
7 TUrning the light around is only the general term: with 
each level of progress in practice, the efflorescence of 
the light increases in magnitude, and the method of 
turning around becomes subtler. Previously one con­
trolled the inside from the outside; now one abides 
in the center and controls the outside. Befure, the 
assistant administered for the master; now one 
promulgates policy in service of the master. There has 
manifestly been a great reversal. 41 
8 When you want to enter quietude, first tune and 
concentrate body and mind, SO that they are free and 
peaceful. Let go of all objects, so that nothing what­
soever hangs on your mind, and the celestial mind 
takes its rightful place in this center. 
9 After that, lower your eyelids and gaze inward at 
the .c~amber of wain: Where the light reaches, true 
positive energy comes forth in response. 
10 Fire is yang outside and yin inside, so it is in substance 
th~ creative, ~ith one yin inside ruling it, arousing 
mind according to things, going along out into 
habitual routines. 
11 Now when you turn the light around to shine 
inward, [the mind] is not aroused by things; negative 
energy then stops, and the flower of light radiates a 
concentrated glow, which is pure positive energy. 
12 Correlates inevitably associate, so the positivity in 
wall:r leap~ up, whereupon it is not the positivity in 
wall:r but Just the positivity in the creative itself 
responding to the positivity in the creative. Once the 
two things meet, they join inextricably, the living 
mc:wement of creative energy now coming, now 
going, now floating, now sinking. In the basic cham­
ber in oneself there is an ungraspable sense of vast 
space, beyond measure; and the whole body feels 
wondrously light and buoyant. This is what is called 
"clouds filling the thousand mountains." 42 
13 Next, the coming and going is traceless, the floating 
and sinking are indiscernible. The channels are stilled, 
energy stops: this is true intercourse. This is what is 
called "the moon steeped in myriad waters." 
14 When the celestial mind first stirs in the midst of that 
utter darkness of the unknown, this is the return of 
initial positive energy. This is "living midnight." So 
what transpires at this point should be explained in 
detail. 
15 Ordinarily, once people let their eyes and ears pursue 
things, they get stirred up, only to stop when things 
are gone. This activity and rest are all subjects, but 
the sovereign ruler becomes their slave. This is 
"always living with ghosts." 
16 Now ifin all activity and rest you abide in heaven 
while in the midst of humanity, the sovereign is then 
the real human being. When it moves, you move 
with it; the movement is the root of heaven. When it 
is at rest, you rest with it; the rest is the moon 
cavern. 
17 If the celestial mind keeps still and you miss the right 
timing in action, then that is an error of weakness. If 
you act in response to it after the celestial mind has 
acted, this is an error of staleness. 
18 Once the celestial mind stirs, then use pure attention 
to raise it up to the chamber of the creative, with the 
light of spirit focused on the crown of the head to 
guide it. This is acting in time. 43 
19 When the celestial mind has risen to the peak of the 
creative, it floats upward of its own accord, then sud­
denly verges on utter quiescence; immediately use 
pure attention to conduct it into the yellow coutt, as 
the light of the eyes is focused on the spiritual room 
in the center. 
20 Once about to enter utter quiescence, not a single 
thought is born; when gazing inward, suddenly one 
forgets the gazing. At that time body and mind are in 
a state of great freedom, and all objects disappear 
without a trace. Then you don't even know where 
the furnace and cauldron in your spiritual room are; 
you can't even find your own body. This is the time 
when "heaven enters eatth" and all wonders return to 
the root. This is solidifying the spirit in the lair of 
energy. 
21 When you first practice turning the light around and 
your mind gets scattered or distracted, so you want 
to concentrate it, your six senses are not used; th.is 
is called "nutturing the root source, adding fuel to 
continue life:' 
22 Once concentration is attained, you are naturally 
buoyant and do not expend any strength; this is 
called "settling the spirit in the original openness, 
gathering the primal together." 
23 When even shadows and echoes have all disappeared, 
and one is highly stabilized in profound tranquillity, 
this is called "hibernating in the lair of energy, all 
wonders returning to the root." 44 
24 These three stages are in each stage, so there are nine 
stages in one stage. I will expound upon that later; 
for now I will speak of three stages in one. 
25 During the nurturing and initial quieting, gathering 
is also nurturing, and hibernating is also nurturing. 
At the end, nurturing is also hibernating. The stage 
in between can be figured out by analogy. 
26 You do not change places, but places are distin­
guished therein; this is the furmless opening, where 
all places are one place. You do not change times, but 
times are distinguished therein; this is time without a 
period, an interval of a world cycle of the original 
organization. 
27 As long as the mind has not reached supreme quiet, 
it cannot act. Action caused by momentum is ran­
dom action, not essential action. Therefore it is said 
that action influenced by things is human desire, 
while action uninfluenced by things is the action 
of Heaven. 
28 This does not contrast the action of Heaven to the 
nature of Heaven. There is a line missing [sic]. After 
this I'll explain the word desit-e. 
29 Desire is in considering things to exist, or being pos­
sessive toward things. This is thought that is out of 
place, action with an ulterior motive. 45 
30 When not a single thought arises, then true mindful­
ness is born; this is pure attention. When the celes­
tial potential is suddenly activated in the midst of 
silent trance, is this not spontaneous attention? This 
is what is meant by acting without striving. 
31 The firlit two lines of the verlie at the beginning of 
this chapter wrap up the function of the golden 
flower. The next two lines refer to the interchange of 
sun and moon; "midsummer" stands fur the "fire" of 
[the trigrammatic Book of Change symbol]fiw. The 
"white snow" is the true yin within fiw about to 
return to earth. "Midnight" is the water of warer. The 
"sun" is the single yang in the center of warer on the 
verge of blazing and returning to heaven. Herein lies 
[the operation of spiritual alchemy known as] "taking 
from warer to fill in fiw." 
32 The next two lines explain the function of the dipper 
handle, the whole mechanism of rising and descend­
ing. Does nor "in the water" refer to water? The eyes, 
as the breeze of wind, shine into the chamber of warer 
and beckon the vitality of dominant yang . .That is 
what these lines mean. 
33 "In the heavens" referli to the chamber of the matiPe. 
"Roaming and returning to absorb the virtues of the 
wceptiPe" means nurturing the fire. 
34 The last two lines point out the secret within the se­
cret. The secret within the secret cannot be dispensed 
with from start to finish. This is what is called cleaning 
the mind, washing the thoughts, which is "bathing." 46 
35 The learning of sages begins with knowing when to 
stop and ends with stopping at ultimate good. It 
begins in the infinite and winds up in the infinite. 
36 In Buddhism, activating the mind without dwelling 
on anything is considered the essential message of the 
whole canon. In Taoism, "effecting openness" is the 
whole work of completing essence and life. In sum, 
the three teachings are not beyond one saying, which 
is a spiritual pill that gets one out of death and 
preserves life. 
37 What is the spiritual pill? It just means to be 
unmindingin all situations. The greatest secret in 
Taoism is "bathing." Thus the whole practice 
described in this book does not go beyond the words 
"emptiness of mind." It is enough to understand this. 
This single statement can save decades of seeking. 
38 If you do not understand how three stages are 
included in one, for an analogy let me use the Budd­
hist teaching of contemplating emptiness, the condi­
tional, and the center. 
39 First is emptiness; you see all things as empty. Next is 
the conditional; though you know things are empty, 
you do not destroy the totality of things but take a 
constructive attitude toward all events in the midst of 
emptiness. Once you neither destroy things nor cling 
to things, this is the contemplation of the center. 47 
40 When you are practicing the contemplation of empti­
ness, if you still know that the totality of things can­
not be destroyed, and yet do not cling to them, this 
includes all three contemplations. 
41 Since empowerment after all means really seeing 
emptiness, when you cultivate contemplation of 
emptiness, emptiness is empty, the conditional is 
also empty, and the center is empty too. 
42 In practicing contemplation of the conditional, much 
of the empowerment is attained in action; so while 
the conditional is of course conditional, emptiness is 
also conditional and the center is conditional too. 
43 When on the way of the center, you still meditate on 
emptiness; but you don't call it emptiness, you call it 
the center. You also meditate on the conditional; but 
you don't call it the conditional, you call it the 
center. When you come to the center, there is no 
need to say. 
44 Although I sometimes speak only of jirr:, sometimes 
I also speak of wal?r. Ultimately they have never 
moved; with one saying I open my mouth: the 
essential mechanism is all in the two eyes. The 
mechanism means the function; you use this to 
manage Creation. 
45 This does not mean that is all there is to Creation; all 
the faculties of sense and mind are mines of light, so 
how could we presume to take only the two eyes and 
not deal with the rest? 48 
46 To use the yang of watEr, you use the light of fire to 
illumine and absorb it. This shows that the "sun and 
moon" are originally one thing. 
47 The darkness in the sun is the vitality of the true 
moon; the "moon cavern" is not on the moon but 
on the sun. That is why it is called the "moon 
cavern;' for otherwise it would be enough just to say 
the "moon." 
48 The white of the moon is the light of the true sun. 
The sunlight being on the moon is what is called the 
"root of heaven." Otherwise it would be enough just 
to say "heaven." 
49 When the sun and moon are sepatated, they are but 
half; only when they come together do they form a 
whole. This is like the case of a single man or a single 
woman, who cannot form a family living alone; only 
when there are husband and wife do they amount to 
a family. 
50 But it is hard to represent the Way concretely. If a 
man and a woman are sepatated they are still 
individuals, but if the sun and moon are separated 
they do not form a complete whole. What I am say­
ing just brings out the point of communion, so I do 
not see duality; you just cling to the separation, so 
the separation has taken over your eyes. IX 
Setting Up 
the Foundation in a 
Hundred Days 
lOne of the Mind Seal scriptures says, "the returning 
wind mixes together, the hundred days' work is etkc­
tive:' On the whole, to set up the foundation requires 
a hundred days before you have real light. As you are, 
you are still working with the light of the eyes, not 
the fire of spirit, not the fire of essence, not the torch 
of wisdom. 
2 Turn it around for a hundred days, and the vital 
energy will naturally be sufficient for true yang to rise 
spontaneously, so that there is true fire naturally 
existing in water. If you carry on the practice this 
way, you will naturally achieve intercourse and for­
mation of the embryo. You are then in the heaven 
of unknowing, and the child thus develops. If you 
entertain any conceptual view at all, this is immedi­
ately a misleading path. 
49 50 
3 A hundred days setting up the foundation is not a 
hundred days; one day setting up the foundation is 
not one day. One breath setting up the foundation 
does not refer to respiration. Breath is one's own 
mind; one's own mind is the breath's original spirit, 
original energy, and original vitality: rising and 
descending, parting and joining, all arise from mind; 
being and non being, emptiness and fullness, are all in 
the thoughts. One breath is held for a lifetime, not 
only a hundred days; so a hundred days is also a 
single breath. 
4 The hundred days is just a matter of empowerment: 
gain power in the daytime, and you use it at night; 
gain power at night, and you use it in the daytime. 
S The hundred days setting up the foundation is a pre­
cious teaching. The sayings of the advanced realized 
ones all relate to the human body; the sayings of true 
teachers all relate to students. This is the mystery of 
mysteries, which is inscrutable. When you see 
essence, you then know why students must seek 
the direction of a true teacher. Every thing that 
emerges naturally from essence is tested. x 
The Light of 
Essence and the Light 
of Consciousness 
1 The method of turning the light around basically is 
to be carried on whether wallcing, standing, sitting, 
or reclining. It is only essential that you yourself find 
the opening of potential. 
2 Previously I quoted the saying, "Light arises in the 
empty room." This light is not luminous, but there is 
an explanation of this as an evidence of efficacy in the 
beginning before one has seen the light. If you see it 
as light and fix your attention on it, then you f.ill 
into ideational consciousness, which is not the light 
of essence. 
3 Now when the mind forms a thought, this thought 
is the present mind. This mind is light; it is medicine. 
Whenever people look at things, when they perceive 
them spontaneously all at once without discriminat­
ing, this is the light of essence. It is like a mirror re­
flecting without intending to do so. In a moment it 
becomes the light of consciousness, through discrim­
ination. When there is an image in a mirror, there is 
no more mirroring; when there is consciousness in 
the light, then what light is there any more? 
51 52 53 
4 At first, when the light of essence turns into 8 If so, then can that which discriminates sun and 
thought, then it is consciousness. When conscious- moon be considered one's own possession? Don't 
ness arises, the light is obscured and cannot be you know that discrimination is based on light and 
found. It is not that there is no light, but that the dark? When both light and dark are forgotten, then 
light has become conscioilsness. This is what is where is discrimination? Therefore there is still 
meant by the saying of the Yellow Emperor, "When attribution; this is an internal object. 
sound moves, it does not produce sound, it produces 9 Only the seeing essence cannot be attributed to any-
echoes." thing. But if when seeing seeing, seeing is not seeing, 
5 The introduction to logical examination in the Hetf)ic then the seeing essence also has an attribution, which 
Marr;h Scripture says, "neither in objects nor in con- refers back to the seeing essence of the revolving flow 
sciousness;' only picking out the organ. What does of consciousness, alluded to in Buddhist scripture 
this mean? Objects are external things, or the so- where it says, ''Using your flowing revolving 
called material world. This has no actual connection consciousness is called error." 
with us. If you pursue objects, you are mistaking 10 When first practicing the eight attributions for dis-
things for yourself. cerning perception, the first seven show how each is 
6 Things must have an attribution. Transmission of attributable to something, temporarily leaving the 
light is attributable to doors and windows, light is seeing essence as a crutch for the practitioner. But 
attributable to the sun and moon. Borrowing them ultimately as long as the seeing essence still carries 
for myself, after all I find "it is not mine." When it with it the eighth consciousness, it is not really un-
comes to where "it is not you;' then who attributes attributable. Only when this last point is broken 
if not you? through is this the real seeing essence, which is truly 
"Light is attributable to the sun and moon." When unattributable. 
7 
you see the light of the sun and moon, there is noth- 11 When turning the light around, you properly turn 
ing to attribute it to. Sometimes there is no sun or around the primary unattributable light, so not a 
moon in the sky, but there is never an absence of the single conscious thought is applied. 
essence of seeing that sees the sun and moon. 54 
12 What causes you to flow and revolve is just the six 
sense organs; but what enables you to attain enlight­
enment is also just the six sense organs. But the fact 
that sense objects and sense consciousnesses are not 
used at all does not mean using the sense organs, just 
using the essence in the sense organs. 
13 Now if you turn the light around without fulling into 
consciousness, you are using the original essence in 
the sense organs. If you turn the light around fullen 
into consciousness, then you use the nature of con­
sciousness in the sense organs. Herein lies the hairs­
breadth's distinction. 
14 Deliberate meditation is the light of consciousness; 
let go, and it is then the light of essence. A hairs­
breadth's difference is as that of a thousand miles , 
so discernment is necessary. 
15 If consciousness is not stopped, spirit does not come 
alive; if mind is not emptied, the elixir does not 
crystallize. 
16 When mind is clean, that is elixir; when mind is 
empty, that is medicine. When it doesn't stick to 
anything at all, it is said that the mind is clean; when 
it doesn't keep anything in it, it is said that the mind 
is empty. If emptiness is seen as empty, emptiness is 
still not empty. Wben empty and mindless of 
emptiness, this is called true emptiness. XI 
The Intercourse of 
Water and Fire 
1 Whenever you leak vital spirit, being stirred and 
interacting with beings, that is all fin. Whenever you 
gather back spirit's consciousness and quiet it down 
to steep in the center, that is all wawr. When the 
senses run outward, that is fin; when the senses turn 
around inward, that is wawr. 
2 The one yin [inside thefin trigram] concentrates on 
pursuing sense experience, while the one yang [inside 
the water trigram] concentrates on reversing and 
withdrawing the senses themselves. 
3 Water and fire are yin and yang, yin and yang are 
essence and lite, essence and life are body and mind, 
body and mind are spirit and energy. Once you with­
draw to rest your vital spirit and are not influenced 
by objects, then this is true intercourse, as of course 
when you sit in profound silence. 
55 XII 
The Cycle 
1 For the complete cycle, energy is not the main thing; 
mental attainment is the sublime secret. If you won­
der what it ultimately is, the cycle helps growth; it is 
maintained without minding, carried out without 
deliberate intention. 
2 Look up at the sky; it changes from hour to hour, 
through 365 days, yet the polar star never moves. 
Our mind is also like this; mind is the pole, energy is 
the myriad stars revolving around it. The energy in 
our limbs and throughout our whole bodyis basi­
cally a network, so do not exert your strength to the 
full on it. Refine the conscious spirit, remove arbitrary 
views, and then after that medicine will develop. 
3 This medicine is not a material thing; it is the light of 
essence, which is none other than the primal true 
energy. Even so, it is necessary to attain great con­
centration before you see it. There is no method of 
culling; those who speak of culling are quite 
mistaken. 
57 58 
4 When you have seen it for a long time, eventually the 
light ofthe basis of the mind becomes spontaneous. 
When the mind is empty, and all indulgence is 
ended, you are liberated from the ocean of misery. 
5 If it is "dragon and tiger" today, "water and fire" 
tomorrow, in the end they turn into illusions. 
6 There is a cycle in each day, there is a cycle in each 
hour; where water andfire interact, this is a cycle. Our 
interaction is the "revolving of Heaven." As long as 
you are unable to stop the mind directly, as a conse­
quence there are times of interaction and times of 
noninteraction. 
7 Yet the revolving of Heaven never stops for a moment. 
If you are actually able to join yin and yang in tran­
quillity, the whole earth is positive and harmonious; 
in the right place in your central chamber, all things 
simultaneously expand to fulfillment. This is the 
method of "bathing" spoken of in alchemical classics. 
What is it if not the great cycle? . 
8 The processes of the cycle do indeed have differences 
of scale, but ultimately there is no way to distinguish 
great and small. When you reach the point where 
meditation is spontaneous, you do not know what 
fire and water are, what heaven and earth are, who 
does the interacting, who makes it one cycle or two 
cycles, or where to find any distinction between great 
and small. 59 
9 It is all the operation of one body; though it appears 
to be most great, it is also small. Each time it takes a 
turn, the universe and all things take a turn with it. 
Thus it is in the heart; so it is also most great. 
10 The alchemical process should ultimately become 
spontaneous. If it is not spontaneous, then heaven 
and earth will revert on their own to heaven and 
earth; myriad things will go back to myriad things: 
no matter how hard you try to join them, you can­
not. Then it is like a season of drought, when yin 
and yang do not join. Heaven and earth do not tail 
to go through their cycles every day, but ultimately 
you see a lot that is unnatural. 
11 If you can operate yin and yang, turning them suit­
ably, then naturally all at once clouds will form and 
rain will full, the plants and trees refreshed, the 
mountain rivers flowing freely. Even if there is some­
thing offensive, it still melts away all at once when 
you notice it. This is the great cycle. 
12 Students ask about "living midnight." This is very 
subtle. If you insist on defining it as true midnight, 
that would seem to be sticking to forms; but if you 
do not focus on forms and do not point out true 
midnight, by what means can the living midnight be 
known? 60 
13 Once you know living midnight, there is definitely 
also true midnight. Are they one or two, not true or 
not alive? It aU requires you to see the real. Once you 
see the real, everything is true, everything is alive. If 
your seeing is not real, what is living, what is true? 
14 As for living midnight, when you see it at aU times, 
finally you reach true midnight; your mood is clear 
and light, and living midnight graduaUy blooms into 
ever-greater awareness. 
15 At present, people do not yet clearly know the liv­
ing; just test it out when you head for the true, and 
the true will appear, while the living will be sublime. XIII 
Song to Inspire 
the World 
o Because of the warmth of my cinnabar heart to liber­
ate the world, I do not refrain from coddling and 
talking a lot. Buddha also pointed directly to life and 
death for a great cause, and this is truly worthwhile. 
Lao-tzu also lamented the existence of the egotistic 
self and transmitted the teaching of the open spirit, 
but people did not discern. Now I give a general 
explanation of finding the road of truth: 
1 The pervasive principle of the center 
Bears univeIllal change; 
2 The very being of true poise 
Is the mysterious pass. 
3 Midnight, noon, and in between, 
If you can stabilize breathing, 
4 The light returns to the primal opening, 
So aU psychic functions are calm. 
5 There emerges the unified energy 
Of the river source that produces the medicine. 
61 62 
6 It passes through the screen 
And transmutes, with golden light; 
7 The single disk of the red sun 
Shines with constant brilliance. 
8 People of the world misconstrue 
The vitalities JVaftr and fire; 
9 Conveying them from heart and genitals, 
Thus producing separation. 
10 How can the human way 
Meet the celestial mind? 
11 If in accord with the celestial, 
The way is naturally meet. 
12 Put down all objects, so nothing comes to mind; 
This is the true infinity of the primal. 
13 Cosmic space is silent, 
Signs are gone; 
14 At the pass of essence and life, 
You forget conceptual consciousness. 
15 After conceptual consciousness is forgotten, 
You see basic reality. 
16 The water-clarifying pearl appears, 
Mysterious and unfathomable: 
17 The screen of beginningless afflictions 
Is voided all at once. 63 
18 The jade capital sends down 
A team of nine dragons; 
19 Walking in the sky, 
You climb to the gateway of heaven: 
20 Controlling wind and lightning, 
You make the thunder rumble. 
21 Freezing the spirit and steadying breath are for beginners; 
Retreating to hide in secrecy is eternal calm. 
22 The two poems I used when I initiated Zhang Zhennu 
long ago both contain the great Way. "After midnight 
and before noon" are not times, but lvatllr and fire. 
"Settling the breath" means a state of centeredness in 
which you go back to the root with each breath. 
"Sitting" means that the mind is unmoved. The "mid­
spine where the ribs join" does not refer to vertebrae; 
it is the great road directly through to the jade capi­
tal. As for the "double pass;' there is sometbing inef­
fable in this. "Thunder in the earth rumbles, setting 
in motion rain on the mountain" means the arising 
of true energy. The "yellow sprouts emerging ftom 
the ground" refer to the growth of the medicine. 
These two little verses are exhaustive; in them the 
highway of practical cultivation is clear. These are not 
confusing words. 
Turning the light arbund is a matter of single­
minded practice: just use the true breathing for stable 
awareness in the central chamber. After a long time at 
this you will naturally commune with the spirit and 
attain transmutation. 64 
This is all based on quieting of mind and stabilization 
of energy. When the mind is forgotten and the energy 
congeals, this is a sign of effectiveness. The emptiness of 
energy, breath, and mind is the formation ofthe elixir. 
The unification of mind and energy is incubation. ClarifY­
ing the mind and seeing its essence is understanding the 
Way. 
You should each practice diligently; it would be too 
bad if you wasted time. If you do not practice for a day, 
then you are a ghost for a day; if you do practice for a sin­
gle breath, then you are a realized immortal for a breath. 
Work on this. Questions and Answers 
Opening up the Mysteries of 
the Doctrine of the 
Golden Flower 
You suppose that attainment is possible in quietude but 
lost in activity; you do not realize that the reason for loss 
through activity is because nothing is attained through 
stillness. When you attain nothing in quietude or lose 
anything through activity, in either case you have not yet 
reached the Way. 
When you keep presence of mind, only then db you have 
autonomy. When you have autonomy, only then can you 
manage affairs .... However, presence of mind is easily 
interrupted. Practice it for a long time, though, and it 
will naturally become unbroken. Once it is unbroken, it 
is continuous. With continuity, the light shines bright. 
When the light shines bright, energy is full. When energy 
is full, then oblivion and distraction disappear without 
effort. 
Observing mind means observing the purity of mind. 
The mind is basically nondual, just one vital reality; 
throughout the past and future, there is no other. With­
out leaving the objects of sense, you climb transcendent 
to the stage of enlightenment. 
65 66 
But observation of mind can be deep or shallow; there is 
forced observation and there is spontaneous observation. 
There is observation outside of sense objects, there is 
observation within sense objects; there is observation that 
is neither internal nor external, there is panoramic obser­
vation. With what observation do you observe mind? 
When observation is deep and illusion is cleared, then 
this is true emptiness. 
Turning the light around is done not by the eyes but by 
the mind; the mind is the eyes. After long persistence, 
the spirit congeals; only then do you see the mind-eyes 
become clear. 
When you observe mind and become aware of openness, 
thereby you produce its vitality. When its virality srabi­
lizes, it becomes manifest, and then you see the opening 
of the mysterious pass. 
Gazing at the lower abdomen is external work. As for the 
inner work, when the mind-eye comes into being, that 
alone is the true "elixir field." 
The light you see before your eyes is rat-light, not. the 
light of the tiger-eye or dragon-vitality. The light of mind 
does not belong to inside Or outside; if you look to see it 
with the physical eyes, that is bedevilment. 
You have been affected by pollution for so long that it is 
impossible to become clear all at once. In truth, the mat­
ter of life and death is important: once you turn the light 
around and recollect the vital spirit to shine stably, then 
your own mind is the lamp of enlightenment. 67 
Everyone already has the lamp of mind, but it is necessary 
to light it so that it shines; then this is immortality. 
Don't let yourselves forget the mind and allow the spirit 
to be obscured. If you have no autonomy, your vital spirit 
diffuses. 
Forms are all conditioned. Cognition is a function of 
mind, empty silence is the substance of mind. If you fix 
the mind on anything conditioned, then temperament is 
in control, so you cannot govern it completely or com­
prehend it thoroughly. 
The minor technique of circulating energy can enhance 
the body so as to extend the life span, but if you therefore 
suppose that the great Way requires work on the physical 
body, this is a tangential teaching. 
External work has no connection to the great Way. The 
true practice of the great Way first requires that vitality be 
transformed into energy. As alchemical literature has 
clearly explained, this vitality is not sexual. 
Refining energy into spirit means keeping the clear and 
removing the polluted. 
Few are th ose wh 0 are calm and serious, rare are th ose 
who are sincere and unified. 
Radiant light is the function of mind, empty silence is the 
subsrance of mind. If there is empty silence without radi­
ant light, the silence is not true silence, the emptiness is 
not true emptiness-it is just a ghost cave. 68 
The breathing that passes through the nose is external 
breathing, which is a phenomenon of the physical body. 
Only when mind and breathing rest on each other is this 
the true breath. The venerable Prajnatara [considered the 
twenty-seventh Indian ancestor of Chan Buddhism] said, 
"Breathing out, I do not follow myriad objects; breathing 
in, I do not dwell on the elements of body or mind." Is 
this the nose? 
When it comes to watching the breathing, or listening to 
the breathing, these are still connected with the physical 
body. These are used to concentrate the mind and are not 
the real lifeline. The real lifeline is to be sought from 
within the real. Looking and listening are one thing. 
The three realms are none other than your mind; your 
mind is not the three realms, yet it contains the three 
realms. 
Whenever there is dependence, that is temporal; where 
there is no dependence, that is primal. 
Where is the primal to be sought? It must be sought by 
way of the temporal. Temporal feelings and consciousness 
are marvelous functions of the primal. It must be sought 
through the work of practical balance in harmonious 
accord, which means calmness and openness. Of course, 
as long as clarification has not taken place, all is polluted. 
Clear up the pollution, and eventually there will be spon­
taneous clarity even without attempting to achieve clarity. 
Only then will the "gold pill" come out of the furnace. 69 
When there is no self in the mind, it is even and clear; when 
the spirit is pure and the energy clear, this is Buddhahood 
and immortality. It is only because the iron pillars of 
thoughts are deeply rooted, and it is hard to escape their 
limitations, that it is necessary to observe one's own mind. 
When you see the mind, only then will you find the roots 
are insubstantial and thus have a sense of freedom from 
phenomena while having the ability to enter their range. 
The primal and temporal are originally not two: what 
makes the distinction is only temporal. When you dis­
criminate, then action and stillness are not united, and 
primal energy becomes conditioned. When they are 
united, temporal energy is also primal, and there is no 
distinction between primal and temporal. 
If there is discrimination between primal and temporal, 
that is just consciousness; if you discriminate, then condi­
tioning flares up, and this is the source of the profuse 
confusion of thoughts. 
What cannot be spoken and cannot be named is the 
generative energy, which is the06ubstance of the Way. 
When the substance is established, the function operates. 
When people are deluded by emotions and do not know 
there is essence, they are ordinary ignoramuses. If they 
know there is essence but do not know there are emo­
tions, this is senseless vacuity. Therefore our teaching is 
actively living and does not settle into one corner, but 
instead applies to heaven and earth, combines eternity 
with the present, equalizes others and self, and has nei­
ther enemy nor fiuniliar. 
~-.-... ---70 
It is said that we are the same in essence but different in 
feeling. There is no difference in feeling either; it is just 
that habits develop unnoticed, evolving in a stream, con­
tinuing to the present, so that their defiling influence can­
not be shed. Ultimately this is not the fault of essence. 
The great Way is not in quiet living. If you stay quietly in 
a room, that has the countereffect of increasing the flames 
of fire in the heart. It is necessary ro be working on the' 
Way whatever you are doing in order ro be able ro "sit on 
the summit of a thousand mountains without leaving the 
crossroads." 
Consciousness is knowledge. In ordinary people it is 
called consciousness, in immortals and Buddhas it is 
called knowledge. The only distinction is between puriry 
and impuriry. 
The noncognizing in the consciousness is the eternal; the 
consciousness in non cognizing is wisdom. If you arouse a 
discriminatory, galloping mind, this is routine, and you 
become an ordinary mortal. 
How can you find puriry in the mind? It is just a matter 
of seeking out puriry in the midst of impuriry. Then 
when you discover signs of impuriry in the midst of 
pU,:iry, you have now found purity. 
The true mind has no form: what has form is ultimately 
illusory. 71 
Is the true mind to be sought from the source of mind? If 
the source is clean, then the celestial design is apparent, 
and daily activities never obstruct the supreme Way. Ifthe 
source is not clean, then even if you have some vision it is 
like a lamp in the wind, flickering erratically. 
What we call the true mind is the enlightened clear mind. 
Therefore it can pervade the heavens and permeate the 
earth, without the slightest artificialiry. 
When mind is empry yet not vacant, this is called true 
emptiness; when mind is there but not reified, this is 
called subtle existence. Don't tarry on one side, and you 
then enter the middle way. Then you have a basis for 
gaining access to virtue. 
The Way is present before our eyes, yet what is before our 
eyes is hard to understand. People like the unusual and 
enjoy the new; they miss what is right in front of their 
eyes and do not know where the Way is. The Way is the 
immediate presence: if you are unaware of the immediate 
presence, then your mind races, your intellect runs, and 
you go on thinking compulsively. All of this is due ro 
shallowness of spiritual power, and shallowness of 
spiritual power is due to racing in the mind. Translation 
Notes 
I. The Celestial Mind 
1. The identification of the Way with essence and primal spirit 
follows the traditions of the Chan school of Buddhism and 
the northern branch of the Completely Real school of 'Tho ism. 
2. Essence is open and spacious, like the sky; lite is a quantity 
of energy, like light. When the text talks about the two 
eyes guiding artention, it means that both spacelike aware­
ness and specific perception are operative at the same time. 
3. This passage introduces the idea ofa succession of transmit­
ters of the teaching of the gold~n flower, to link it with the 
Way of the ancients. 
4. The honorific name Taishang (T'ai-shang) refers to the 
metaphysical reality represented by Lao-tzu, legendary 
author of 1iIo Te Ching, the basic classic of 'Tho ism. 
Donghua (Tung-hua) was the teacher of Zhongli Quan 
(Chung-li Ch'uan), who was the teacher ofLu Yan (Lu 
Yen). Lu Yan is the ''Van'' mentioned in our text; heIs 
regarded as the immediate ancestor of the Completely Real 
(Quanzhen ICh'uan-chen) school of Taoism, which was 
founded by his disciples and descendants in the eleventh 
and twelfth centuries. 
73 74 
The teaching of the golden flower itself is attributed to 
Lu Yan. There are numerous conflicting stories about the 
/iii: and times ofLu Yan, but in Taoist traclition it is widely 
believed that he attained immortality and is still alive. Most 
of the texts attributed to Lu Yan were received by spiritual 
communications centuries after the founding of the Com­
plete Reality school and were not written by Lu himself. 
5. Completely Real Taoism became so influential in the 
twelfth and thirteenth centuries that it attracted many 
opportunistic followers and imitators. Later many practices 
originally abandoned by the school were amalgamated with 
elements of Completely Real Taoism to produce bastardized 
forms. At the time of the writing of our text, approximately 
250 years ago, Completely Real Taoism was almost entirely 
a name without a reality. 
6. "Master Siu" seems to refer to Xu Jingyang (Hsu Ching­
yang), a great Taoist of the third and fourth centuries who 
is said to have foretold the appearance ofLu Yan, to whom 
this text is attributed. He is also believed to have said he 
would reappear in the worl,d twelve centuries later, which 
would have been shortly before The Se""t of the Golden 
Flower is supposed to have been received from Lu Yan. This 
text is said to be a written form of a teaching that was origi­
nally wordless, an esoteric component of the movement 
received during a period of special concentration. The term 
special tmnsmisswn outside of doctrine is a byword of Chan 
Buddhism. The practice of contemplative vigils like the one 
in which the golden flower teaching was revealed is also a 
standard exercise of/atter-day Chan Buddhism. 
7. The foregoing passages on the lineage of the text were 
omitted in Richard Wilhelm's translation. These passages 
arc rather laconic, and someone with Wilhelm's knowledge 75 
of Chinese language and Taoist history could hardly have 
been expected to be able to interpret them. It is not clear, 
however, why Wilhelm also excised paragraph 7 on the 
importance of an orderly life as a prerequisite for the mysti­
cal practice of the golden flower. It may not have con­
furmed sufficiently to his idea of mysticism. Westerners 
have often professed to believe that mystics are generally 
isolated ftom society, and this opinion has affected many 
Western attempts to interpret and adopt mystical teachings. 
8. The speaker is supposed to be Lu Yan, or Ancestor Lu, 
whom later Taoist texts envision as having been entrusted 
with a mission for the celestial government and duty­
bound to reappear in the human world ftom time to time. 
9. Wilhelm completely mistranslates this passage, making it 
out to say the very opposite of what it actually does. This 
appears to be mostly due to simple misunderstancling of 
the language and unfumiliarity with the background of the 
text. The passage describes the c1istinctive nature of the text 
as representing a sudden enlightenment teaching, in con­
trast to the gradual teachings of ordinary Taoist works on 
spiritual alchemy. This identifies the Chan Buddhist 
influence behind the Taoist fucade of the text. 
10. "The lead in the homeland of water is just one lIavor" 
comes from U,ulerrtanding Reality, the great classic of the 
Completely Real school. Lead symbolizes the true sense of 
real knowledge. Water stands for a symbol from the ancient 
I Chit,!! representing the true sense of the knowledge of 
reality enclosed within conscious knowledge. To say that it 
is just one lIavor means that it is attained by the essence of 
consciousness itself, not by any modification of conscious­
ness. This is what makes it truly universal and unlimited by 
sectarian or cultural discriminations. 76 
11. The expression "turning the light around" refers to the 
Chan Buddhist exercise of mentally looking inward toward 
the source of consciOllsness. Wilhelm translates this as 
"circulation of the light;' ~hich is not very plausible 
linguistically but nevertheless could have been an honest 
mistake. Evidently he confused this ~ith the watetwheel 
exercise of Taoist energetics, in which a quantity of psychic 
heat would be consciously conducted along a certain toute 
through the body. 
Many cultists imitated this exercise on the level of 
fixated attention without the psychic heat and noticed the 
characteristic modifications of consciollsness these postures 
produce. It is quite possible that Wilhelm got this idea 
from a member of such a cult. The notes added to the 
Golden Flower text he used (which was printed some two 
hundred years after the movement had arisen) tend to 
dilute the Chan with materials that make it look like a run­
of-the mill mixture of alchemy and energetics. Wilhelm's 
medical training also seems to have predisposed him to 
make physiological interpretations 
There is evidence to suggest that it was possible to read 
certain special mind-body postures of attention into por­
tions of the original text. These postures were used only for 
temporarily anchoring the mind while performing the 
inner gazing toward the source of consciousness. This is 
not the same as the energy circulation of Moist practice. 
The: text speaks of the highest experiences being purely 
mental, "in the heart;' elevating the spiritual over the 
physical in the manner of Chan Buddhism and the 
northern branch of Completely Real Taoism. 
12. The celestial mind refers to unconditioned consciousness' 
light is its function. When the light is "turned around" a~d 
directed toward its own source, environmental and psycho-77 
logical factors influence the mind less, with the result that 
the energy in the body is also preserved and purified 
because it is not drawn into conflicts with inner or outer 
states. 
13. The expression "above the nine skies" means a state of 
mind beyond the influence of mundane conditioning. In 
Buddhist terminology it also has the special meaning of 
being above all cultivated meditation states. Silmto/ paying 
court (to God) and soaring upwrmi are common Taoist expres­
sions for elevation of consciousness. There are several Mind 
Seal scriptures, and it is not certain to which of these the 
text refers in this passage. 
14. Taoist master Liu I-ming says of the gold pill, "The pill is 
the original, primal, real unified energy. This energy, when 
passed through fire to refine it, becomes permanently 
indestructible, so it is called the gold pill." 
II. The Original Spirit and the Conscious Spirit 
1. The distinction between the original spirit and the con­
scious spirit is one of the most important ideas in Taoist 
psychology. The conscious spirit is historically conditioned; 
the original spirit is primal and universal. The conscious 
spirit is a complex of modifications of awareness, while the 
original spirit is the essence of awareness. To say that this 
essence transcends the "primal organization" means that it 
is by nature more fundamental than even the most basic 
patterns of modification to which consciousness may be 
subject. In Jungian terms, this means that the essence of 
the original spirit is beyond, or deeper than, even the 
archetypes of the collective unconscious. Jung himself does 
not seem to have attained this, and his work reflects what 78 
in Taoist terms would be termed confusion of the con­
scious spirit (which includes the Jungian "unconscious") 
with the original spirit. 
2. Vitality, energy, and spirit are the fundamental triad of 
being, known in Taoist terms as the "three treasures" of the 
human body. Here the spirit is the only one regarded as 
transcendental. This is characteristic of Buddhistic neo­
Taoist spiritual immortalism, which tends to deemphasize 
the physiological practices of old alchemical immortalism. 
To "live transcendentally outside of yin and yang" means to 
be aloof from the ups and downs of ordinary life in the 
midst of changes in the world. 
Th,-ee realms is a Buddhist term. The realms are the 
domains of desire, form, and formlessness, representing the 
totality of conditioned experience, from the coarsest to the 
most subtle. Wilhelm, who seems to have known little 
about Buddhism, writes in a note that the three realms, or 
"three worlds:' as he translates them, are "Heaven, earth, 
and heUe' Jung's work on archetypes and dreams would 
have benefited immensely from an accurate understanding 
of the real Buddhist concept of three realms or worlds. As 
it was, J ung does not seem to have been able to distinguish 
these realms of experience clearly; most of his work appears 
to hover on the border of the realms of form and desire; 
the realm of fonnless consciousness seems to have been 
unfamiliar to him. Perhaps Wilhelm's Christian background 
influenced his interpretation of this term. 
3. Seeing essence and orjgi,zal foee are both Chan Buddhist terms, 
here used to refer to the Taoist experience of the primal 
spirit. It is evident that Wilhelm was not familiar with even 
the most rudimentary lore of Chan Buddhism. 
4. This passage refers to a certain stage that is often referred to 79 
in Taoist yogic texts in much more physical terms than it.is 
here where the Chan Buddhistlnorthern Complete RealIty 
infl;ence is again manifest. Wilhelm's translation of . 
"instincts and movements" for "on the verge of movlflg 
into action" misconstrues both Chinese grammar and the 
nature of the experience to which the passage refers. When 
the text speaks of this as a secret that "has not been. trans­
mitted in a thousand agest it means that the expenence 
can only be understood firsthand. 
5. Chan Buddhism traditionally describes the mechanism of 
delusion as mistaking the servant for the master. In the 
metaphor of this passage, the general is supposed to be a 
servant but instead.usurps authOrIty. According to Chanl 
Taoist psychology, the conscious mind (which does the 
thinking) is supposed to be a servant of the original mind, 
but the activity of the conscious mind tends to become so 
self-involved that it seems to have become an independent 
entity. When "the sword is turned around," in the metaphor 
of our text, the original mind retrieves command over the 
delinquent conscious mind. 
6. The "chamber of the origin" means the source of aware­
ness; keeping to the chamber of the origin is tur~ing 
around the light of consciousness to be aware of Its. own 
source. In this way the mind is freed from compulSIve con­
cern with its own productions. Through this practice it 
becomes possible to conttol and order the co?~cious mind 
without force, by maintaining the central posmon of the 
original mind. . . 
Like many Western interpreters of hIS tIme, Jung ha~ 
the idea that yoga involves or produces abnormal psychIC 
states and is aimed at toral detachment from the external 
world, or at transcendental unity without differentiation. 80 
In the real Golden Flower teaching there is no suggestion 
of obliterating the conscious mind (which in this context 
means the mind that thinks, imagines, dreams, and 
emotes, including what Jung called the unconscious). 
The faculties of thinking, imagining, dreaming, and 
emotion are not destroyed in the earthly immortal ofTao­
ism; rather they are brought under the dominion of their 
source of power and made into channels of its expression. 
The taming of unruly consciousness is far from the intro­
verted, quietistic cult that Wilhelm, Jung, and others of 
their time imagined from their fragmentary observations 
of Eastern lore. 
7. Wilhelm translates "the water of vitality" as "seed-water" 
and equates it with Eros; he translates "the fire of spirit" as 
"spirit-fire" and equates it with Logos; and he translates 
"the earth of attention" as "thought-earth" and equates it 
with intuition. Of these three, Eros is closest to certain 
Taoist meanings of vitality, in the sense of creative energy 
and erotic feeling. In this context, however, Eros is inap­
propriate in that the meaning of vitality here does not 
include erotic feeling. Even the connection with creative 
energy is actually remote in this text, because the real 
meaning here is the sense of true knowledge of the original 
mind. This can be known from the symbolism of water as 
explained in the following text. 
As for "spirit-fire" and Logos, this seems even less 
appropriate, since the fire of spirit here just means aware­
ness and does not at this point differentiate between the 
original spirit and the conscious spirit. The sacred and the 
profane ate mixed, and the spirit does not deserve the name 
of Logos yet. This is the very reason for the alchemy: to 
refine the sacred, pure primal spirit out of the profane, 
conditioned conscious spirit. 81 
The earth of atrention is translated by Wilhelm as 
"thought-earth" and identified with intuition, but thought 
and intuition properly belong to the realm symbolized by 
fire, not that of earth. Warer and fire, real knowledge and 
conscious knowledge, primal unity and present awareness, 
ate brought together in the medium of earth, which stands 
for attention, concentration, intent, or will. Here it is 
identified with the celestial mind, which means that it is 
innoc~nt of temporal conditioning. 
In other texts this is called pure attention or true 
intent. Since earth is the medium, it must be purified 
befOre it can absorb the pure essences of water and fire to 
combine them. If the focus of attention is itselfalready 
biased by the activity of an unruly consciousness, then it 
may not be able to draw that consciousness to an orderly 
reality of which it is as yet unconscious. 
8. The "energy of the primal real unity" stands for the living 
flux of the perpetual cycles of natural evolution, wherein 
all beings and all things live in the lives of one another. 
The Book of Balance and Harmony, an ancient text of the 
Complete Reality school antedating the golden flower 
dispensation by over four hundred years, expresses the idea 
of the primal unity in these terms: "All beings are basically 
one form and one energy. Form and energy are basically one 
spirit. Spirit is basically utter openness. The 'Tho is basically 
ultimate nonbeing. Change is therein." The combination of 
water and fire in the medium of earth thus refers to experi­
ential realization of the unity of being from a transcenden­
tal point of view that is changeless itself yet accommodates 
all change. 
9. Wilhelm used the terms Eros, Logos, and intuition in an 
attempt to convey the Chinese ideas to a Western audience, 82 
but the assignments he made are largely subjective and 
arbitrary from the point of view of Chinese Taoist tradition. 
Part of the problem seems to be that as a Christian he 
understood the Chinese word "spirit" to be as~ociated with 
either the divine or the supernatural. 
In the first section of this text, for example, Wilhelm 
translates zhixu zhiling zhi shen, which means a spirit (i.e., 
mind) that is completely open and completely effective, as 
"God of Utmost Emptiness and Lire." Based on this sort of 
translation, Jung thought that the Chinese had no idea 
that they were discussing psychological phenomena. He 
then tried to repsychologize the terminology, but since he 
did not quite understand it to begin with he could not but 
wind up with a distortion in the end. 
. It is little wonder that Jung came to imagine, through 
hIS own attempts at meditation, that the Taoists had 
arrived at the entrance to the science of psychology "only 
through abnormal psychic states;' as he wrote in his com­
mentary to Wilhelm's version of The Secret of the Go/dm 
FIuwer. It is worth noting in this connection that J ung also 
tOund late medieval baroque Christian alchemical books 
puzzling but did not openly aCCuse their authors of having 
come upon theIr sCIence through induction of aberrated 
mental states. 
10. The concepts of the higher and lower souls were among 
those that caught the special attention of Wilhelm and 
Jung in connection with their Christian backgrounds 
and interests. Wilhelm uses the term anima tOr lower 
soul and animus tOr higher soul. In his introduction he 
deemphasizes the gender associations of yin and yang, but 
in connection with the concept of the souls Wilhelm calls 
the anima reminine and the animus masculine. Jung then 
proceeds to exaggerate this distortion even further in his 83 
own disquisition on feminine and masculine psychologies. 
None of this gets to the heart of the discussion of our text. 
The idea that the body is created by attention is typi­
cally Buddhist, but it is also tOund in the schools of Taoism 
influenced by Buddhism. In this text, the "lower soul" sim­
ply means the reeling of being a solid body physically pres­
ent in a solid world. As long as this feeling persists, the 
srate of the lower soul (which includes visceral emotions) is 
subject to random environmental influences. TheretOre the 
text speaks of"intemIpting consciousness" in the sense of 
withdrawing attention from the feeling of solidity in order 
to free it from the bonds of external influences, making it 
less sticky and more fluid, unbounded by temporal events. 
II. In colloquial Chinese usage, "liver and heart" means what 
is essential. In a human being, the liver is associated with 
courage and conscience. This passage illustrates the Taoist 
awareness of the connection between waking and dreaming 
experience. 
12. The nine heavens and nine earths stand tOr the whole 
universe of experience, from the most exalted to the most 
profound. 
13. This passage connects the last three: the process of the 
exercise is to turn attention around to the source of aware­
ness to refine tbe higher soul, thus preserve the spirit, thus 
control the lower soul, and thus interrupt the conditioned 
stream of consciousness. The purpose of interrupting the 
stream of consciousness is described in the following 
passage. 
14. "Dissolving the lower soul" means detachment from the 
feeling of physical existence. As the text subsequently 
makes clear, there is no real lower soul that is in substance 84 
different from the higher sou!. They are both aspects of one 
spirit, artificially alienated by confusion. When energy is 
freed from obsessive clinging to the body or lower soul, it 
can be used to restore the original spirit to completeness. 
15. Turning the light around, or directing attention toward the 
source of awareness, counteracts the tendency to dwell on 
objects or modifications of consciousness. Here this is 
called "dissolving darkness and controlling the lower sou!." 
Taoists use a symbol from the I Ching known as heaven 
or the creative to represent what Chan Buddhists call the 
original face or the mind ground. When the text says that 
other than turning the light around there is no special exer­
cise for restoring this primal wholeness, it confirms that the 
practice being taught is that of Northern Taoism as influ­
enced by Chan Buddhism, and not the physiological 
energetics of Southern Taoism as influenced by Tantric 
Buddhism. 
16. The term embryo of sage hood or embryonic enlightenment is 
very common in classical Chan Buddhist texts of the Tang 
and Sung dynasties. It seems to have passed into Complete 
Reality Taoism from Chan, but a parallel idea occurs in 
certain pre-Chan Taoist scriptures. The formation of the 
embryo represents the initial awakening of the mind. 
NurtUring the embryo, a term frequently found in Chan, 
refers to the process of development and maturation after 
awakening. 
17. "Concentrating the spirit on where the celestial mind rests 
when the embryo leaves the shell" is a typical Chan Bud­
dhist formulation, here expressed in the terminology of 
Taoism. The Northern Taoist master Liu I-ming also uses 
the metaphor of the dung beetle in his Awakening to the 
Ta(), where he uses it similarly to describe the creation of 85 
the transcendent being by concentration of spirit: "In the 
midst of ecstatic trance there is a point ofliving potential, 
coming into being from non being, whereby the spiritual 
embtyo can be formed and the spiritual body be 
produced." 
18. This passage shows that the division of so-called higher and 
lower souls is regarded as not a primal metaphysical reality 
but a temporal psychic phenomenon. When the text says 
that the light, clear energy characteristic of the higher soul 
is "obtained from cosmic space," it refers to the equanimous 
spacelike awareness taught in Chan Buddhism and Com­
plete Reality Taoism. This spacelike awareness contains 
everything while resting on nothing; it is the basic experi­
ence of the Chan master or Taoist wizard who lives in the 
midst of the things of the world yet is free from bondage 
to them. This contrasts with the limitation of awareness 
represented by the lower soul, mixed up in the objects of 
its perception. 
Since Jung's "collective unconscious" still has fann, 
from the point of view of the golden flower it must there­
fore be classified.with the lower soul and ordinary mind; 
his hope was to make this conscious in order to transcend 
it, but Tung himself appears to have become so involved in 
the discovery and discussion of the unconscious that he 
became attached to it and as a consequence was never able 
to experience the higher soul and open the golden flower. 
His commentary on Wilhelm's translation bears witness to 
this, as do his other writings on Eastern mysticism. 
19. Here lire means spirit, and death means matter. Feeding on 
blood is emblematic of attachment to the body as self, car­
ried through the very portals of physical death. According 
to Chan Buddhist psychology, what are mythologically 86 
portrayed as experiences of hell after death are in faCt mani­
festations of this attachment wrenching the heart as one is 
dying. When this text speaks of a "coming together of 
kind," it means that whatever attention is fixated on mate­
rial things inevitably meets the fate of all material things, 
which is to perish and decay. 
20. This final passage again drives home the point that the 
lower soul has no independent existence but is just a condi­
tioned modification of the original "unified awareness" and 
can therefure be changed and refined to a point at which it 
is also pragmatically no different from the higher soul. This 
refinement is the object of the practice ofturning the light 
around taught in this Golden Flower text. 
III. Turning the Light Around and 
Keeping to the Center 
1. The 'Thoist adept Wenshi (Wen-shih) was believed to be a 
student ofLao-tzu, transmitter of the classic T(I() Te Chi,'tJ. 
A text known as The Ii.". Script."" ofWemhi says, "Our 
Way is like being in darkness. Those in the light cannot see 
a single thing in the darkness, whereas those who are in 
darkness can see everything in the light;" 
2. "Non being within being" refers to a sense of openness and 
spaciousness in the midst of things, which is first produced 
by the exercise of turning the light around. "Being within 
non being" refers to the presence of energy within the vast­
ness of the mind merged with space. The "body beyond 
your body" refers to the hidden reserve of vital energy 
uncovered by the opening of the mind. 
3. The period of a hundred days is commonly mentioned in 
Taoist texts as the length of time required to set up the 87 
foundation by stabilizing the concentration of conscious­
ness. The actual time may naturally be different; the crite­
rion is the production of the effect. The term firing process 
is also taken ftom Taoist spiritual alchemy and means the 
course of meditation work, symbolized by the firing or 
cooking of elixir to crystallize it into a pill. 
4. "Positive light" means the creative energy in the original 
mind. The "eyes" are the two main aspects of consciousness 
symbolized by sky and light: formless awareness and aware­
ness of form. "Running leakage" means that energy is wasted 
through involvement with objects. This is called "confor­
mity" because it happens as a matter of course when the 
mind is conditioned by things. "Reversal" therefore means 
withdrawing energy from objects, so that it can be stabi­
lized and mastered from within rather than controlled 
ftom without. 
5. Turning the light around is turning around the energy of 
creation in that the total experience of the world depends 
upon the orientation of the mind. Changsha, a distin­
guished Chan master of the ninth century, is famous for 
saying, '~ worlds in the ten directions are the light of the 
self. All worlds in the ten directions are in the light of the 
self. In all worlds in the ten directions, there is no one who 
is not oneself. I always tell people that the Buddhas of past, 
present, and future, together with the sentient beings of 
the whole universe, are the light of great wisdom. Before 
the light raeliates, where do you place it? Before the light 
radiates there is not even a trace of Buddhas or sentient , 
beings-whete do you find the mountains, rivers, and 
lands?" 
This exercise stops random imagination and empties 
routine compulsion by stopping them at the source. The 88 
teaching of Pure Land Buddhism expresses a similar experi­
ence by saying that one single-minded recollecrion of the 
Buddha of Infinite Light erases eighry eons of sins. The 
idea is that habits of illse thought exist only to the extent 
that they are continually tended, groomed, and renewed. 
Deprived of center-stage attention, these habits lose their 
power over the mind. 
6. Being rhythmical, breathing is thought of as going through 
fOur seasons with each breath. One of the founders of the 
Complete Realiry school describes the intensification of 
time in the process of spiritual incubation in Taoist alchemy 
as the experience of the mental equivalent of thirry-six 
thousand years within one year of concentration. This 
represenrs a process of accelerated conscious evolution. 
7. Here "conformlry" is defined as pursuing objects. The idea 
of a "netherworld" is not confined in this context to a state 
after death, but stands for a condition of depletion in which 
there is no more creativiry left and one lives through sheer 
force of habit. 
The Heroic Marr;h Scripture is a Buddhist text that came 
into vogue among Chan contemplatives in the tenth or 
eleventh century. It has continued in populariry because of 
its detailed descriptions of meditation states, highly valued 
In rhe absence of expert teachers. Eventually certain formu­
lations of this scripture were also taken over by Taoist yogis 
bOrtOwing techniques from Buddhism. 
8. The Yin Omm;gence Classic (rinfu jing) and the P/ai" Q!teS­
twm of the Yelknv Emperor (Huang Di suwen jing) are Taoist 
texts, both considered very old. The former work is also 
attributed to the Yellow Emperor mentioned in the title of 
the larter. This legendary figure of high antiquiry is one of 
the great cultural heroes of Taoism and Chinese culture in 89 
general. One rype of Taoism, called the Huang-Lao teach­
ing after the names of the mythical founders known as 
Yellow Emperor (Huang Di) ,and Lao-tzu, was ostensibly 
concerned with immortalism. 
Note that here "long life" and "transcendence of/ife" 
are presented as rooted in psychological experience. It is 
common among Complete Realiry Taoists to understand 
immorraliry as higher consciousness, with no necessary 
relation to the longeviry of the physical body as measured 
in terrestrial time. Nevertheless, the menral ease resulting 
ftom the experience of spiritual "immorraliry" is also said 
to generally preserve and enhance physical health by freeing 
the individual from destructive stress and tension. 
9. The "three teachings" are Taoism, Buddhism, and Con­
fucianism. From its very inception, the Complete Realiry 
school of Taoism has taught that these three philosophies 
share a common essence. This was accepted by Buddhists, 
especially the Chan contemplatives, but Confucians were 
averse to recognize any affiniry with Buddhism even as 
they absorbed Chan methodology into their own studies. 
Wilhelm translates this passage, "This is the common goal 
of all religions;' and in his introduction he notes that Taoist 
organizations included not only Confucians, Taoists, and 
Buddhists but also Muslims, Christians, and Jews. 
10. Jung used the concepts of intra version and extroversion to 
describe what he thought were characteristic attitudes of 
Eastern and Western mentaliries. He absorbed himself in 
his own fantasy world, and he imagined that the Chinese 
Taoists did the same thing. Since our text says, however, 
that "the light is neither inside nor outside rhe self;' it 
can harcl1y be supposed that turning the light around is 
the same thing as introversion in the Jungian sense. The 90 
Chanrraoist meditative exercise of turning the light around 
does not make one oblivious of the external world, nor 
does it by any means involve concern with images or 
funtasies that may occur to the mind. 
11. Quiet sitting was commonly practiced by Buddhists, Taoists, 
and neo-Confucians. The Book of Balance and Harmony, a 
compendium of all three teachings as they were practiced in 
the Completely Real school of Taoism, says, "What the 
three teachings esteem is calm stability. This is called being 
based on calm. When the human mind is calm and stable, 
unaffected by things, it is merged in the celestial design." 
12. The state where "heaven is open, earth is broad, and all 
things are just as they are" is described in graphic detail by 
the nineteenth-century Completely Real Taoist master Liu 
I-ming in his Awakeni'1!J to the Tao, wherein he speaks of 
emulating heaven and earth: "If people can be open minded 
and magnanimous, be receptive to all, take pity on the old 
and the POOf, assist those in peril and rescue those in trou­
ble, give of themselves without seeking reward, never bear 
grudges, look upon others and self impartially, and realize 
all as one, then people can be companions of heaven. If 
people can be flexible and yielding, humble, with self­
control, free of agitation, clear of volatility, not angered by 
criticism, ignoring insult, docilely accepting all hardships, 
illnesses, and natllral disasters, withollt anxiety or resent­
ment when fuced with danger Or adversity, then people can 
be companions of earth. With the nobility of heaven and 
the humility of earth, one joins in with the attributes of 
heaven and earth and extends to eternity with them ," 
13. "Reversed gazing" means tllrning attention to the source of 
awareness; it is one of the standard expressions of the golden 
flower technique. R£aehi'1!J toJvani knowledge is a special 91 
Taoist usage of a Confucian tenn. Originally it meant 
attaining knowledge by assessment of things. Here it is 
llSed to stand fur the exercise of "turning the light around" 
and reaching toward the source of knowing. There are 
many examples ofspeciaJ Thoist uses of Confucian and 
Buddhist tenns to be found in the literature of syncretic 
schools such as that of the Golden Rower. 
There fullow in Wilhelm's ttanslation six paragraphs 
that are not in the Chinese text available to me. Their 
content marks them as interpolations or fuotnotes. 
14. Small Swppi'1!J RNI Seeing is a classic compendium of basic 
meditation techniques, composed by the founder ofTian­
tai Buddhism in the sixth century A.D. Wilhelm does not 
ttanslate this passage, and he misconstrues the terms ~ 
pi'1!J and seeing as "fixating contemplation." The terms mean 
stopping random thought and seeing successive layers of 
truth. This recommendation of a popular Buddhist medita­
tion guidebook as a "touchstone" illustrates the close rela­
tionship between Buddhist and Thoist contemplative 
practices of the time. 
15. "Focus on the center" is ttanslated by Wilhelm as "the center 
in the midst of conditions," misreading the verb yuan, "fOcus," 
as the noun yuan, "condition." There fullows a passage (not 
in my Chinese text) interpreting "focus on the center" to 
mean, as Wilhelm ttanslates, "fixing one's thinking on the 
point which lies exactly between the two eyes." "This is not what 
the Buddhist tenn originally means, and this consciousness­
altering technique in Wilhelm's version is the subject of 
strong warnings in modem literature of the Completely 
Real school of Tho ism; it is said to be very dangerollS. 
The presence of numerous such fragmentary yogic 
interpolations out of character with the overall teaching of 92 
the text leads me to suspect that Wilhelm's text had been 
doctored by quasi-Thoist cultists, quite possibly disaffected 
Confucians, who were devoted or addicted to altered states 
of consciousness. 
The meaning of the "center" in the context of Complete 
Reality Taoism is more accurately defined by Liu I-ming in 
my I Ching MandaiR.r: "The spirit of openness is the center. 
The mysterious female is essence and life. The immortality 
of the spirit of openness is the center containing essence 
and life. Setting up the foundation on the mysterious 
remale is essence and lire constiruting the cenrer. Those 
who keep to this center are sages, those who lose this 
center are ordinary mortals." 
As to the center being the "mechanism of Creation," 
Liu says, "The center is the great root of the world. All the 
sages, immortals, and Buddhas of all times are born from 
this center. It is so vast that there is nothing outside it, yet 
so minute that it retreats into storage in secrecy. Those who 
awaken to this immediately ascend to the ranks of sages, 
while those who miss this are sunk ror eons." 
Liu also affirms the subtlety of the center, and the 
delicacy of the mental posrure of focus on the center, to 
which he denies any physical location as suggested by Wil­
helm's version of the Golden Flower rext. Liu says: "It has no 
location, no fixed position. Look for it and you cannot See 
it, listen for it and you cannot hear it. Try to grasp it and 
you cannot find it .... It is not easy ror people to see this 
center, and not easy for them to know it. It cannot be con­
sciously sought, it cannot be mindlessly kept. If you seek it 
consciously, you full into rorms; if you keep it mindlessly, you 
enter into empty silence. Neither of these is the central way:' 
In I Ching MtuUIaIas Liu specifically repudiates interpre­
tations in terms of yogic exercises such as that described in 93 
Wilhelm's text, emphasizing the dangers inherent in such 
practices: "Srudents everywhere are ignorant of just what 
this center is. Some say it is the center of the body, some 
say it is the center of the top of the head, some say it is the 
region of the heart, some say it is the cen.te~ ~fthe fo~­
head, some say it is the throat, some say It IS m the mIddle 
of the space between the kidneys and genitals. Vainly hop­
ing for eternal lire, they cling to points in this ephe~eral 
body and call that keeping to the cenrer and embracmg the 
one. Not only will they not live eternally, they will even 
hasten death." 
16. This passage is seriously misconstrued in Wilhelm's ve~ion. 
When the text says, "Hereafter, whenever thoughts arlse, 
you don't need to sit still as before," it is referring to the 
time after the hundred days' work of setting up the founda­
tion, during which the power of introspective concentra­
tion is stabilized. Investigating the locus of thought, where 
it arises and passes away, is a method of rurning the light 
around commonly practiced in later Chan Buddhism. 
Here and following, Wilhelm translates "need not" as 
"must not;' and "cannot be grasped" as "cannot be done." 
These misconstructions thoroughly skew the meaning, 
because they miss the effective thrust of the text. The point 
of the exercise is to experience the ungraspability of mind 
in itself. Where the text says "Push this inquiry on and 
on over and over until you realize it cannot be grasped," 
Wilhelm translates, "Nothing is gained by pushing reflec­
tion further" which is completely off the mark; it would be 
impossible ;0 attain the true effect of t~e pra~tic~ rollowi~g 
Wilhelm's version. What he renders as nothmg IS gamed IS 
a very common Buddhist expression meaning "un~spable." 
When the text says, "'Having looked ror my mmd, I 
realize it cannot be grasped: 'I have pacified your mind ror 94 
you,'" it alludes to one of the most famous of Chan Bud­
dhist stories. A seeker asked the founder of Chan ro pacity 
his mind. The Chan founder said, "Bring me your mind 
and I will pacity it for you." The seeker said, "Having looked 
for my mind, I realize it cannot be grasped." The founder 
said, "I have pacified your mind for you;' This illustrates 
the climax of the exercise of turning the light around. Wil­
helm had apparently never read or heard this story. 
17. "Once you reach this ungraspability" is translated by Wilhelm 
as "That leads to no goal." In many cases Wilhelm does not 
seem to have been able to decipher the text well enough 
even to discern where a sentence begins or ends. He also 
translates "stopping" as "fixating," but fixation is definitely 
proscribed in the instructions of this very same text. 
18. The canonical Chinese text ends the section here; Wil­
helm's includes a rather long discourse on yogic technique, 
which he teears as an addition separate from the main text. 
The content of the interpolated passages points to a fuirly 
typical kind of cultism and mentions practices rhat are pop­
ular but dangerous. It is worth reemphasizing this danger, 
for such practices are also found in other popular books on 
Taoism in English, without the warnings that accompany 
their mention in authentic Chinese Taoist books. These 
exercises are in fact unnecessary for the practice of turning 
the light around as taught in the real golden flower 
doctrine. 
IV. Turning the Light Around and 
Tuning the Breathing 
I. Chan Buddhism teaches that realization comes of itself and 
cannot be anticipated because it is not a product of subjec-95 
tive imagination. Hopes and expectations on the part of 
the practitioner inhibit the spontaneous working of the 
potential that makes realization possible. 
2. Oblivion and distraction are commonly treated in Buddhist 
meditation manuals as the two main "sicknesses" to which 
meditators are prone. Focusing the mind on the breathing 
is an ancient Buddhist practice that is especially popular 
among modern-day Zennists. Spiriu/al Akhemy for Women, 
a latc-nineteenth-century Taoist work, says, "In general, 
what is most essential at the beginning of this study is self­
refinement. Self-refinement is a matter of mind and breath­
ing resting on each other. This means that rhe mind rests 
on the breathing and the breathing rests on the mind" 
(from Immortal Sisters). 
3. Taoists and Buddhisrs both observe the intimate natural 
connection between breathing and mental state. When the 
mind is excited, the breathing accelerates; when the mind 
is calm, so is the breath. The practice of resting mind and 
breath on each other makes deliberate use of this relation­
ship to calm the mind down and gradually bring it to a 
state of stillness. 
4. "Inward breathing"'is the rhythm of consciousness, "out­
ward breathing" is the rhythm of respiration. Taoists and 
Buddhisrs both use the image of "leaking" to represent the 
loss of energy through random menral activity and its cor­
responding physical unrest. Buddhas and Taoist immortals 
are described as having "put an end to leakage." 
5. Taoist and Buddhist texts describe many manifestations of 
human tendencies toward polarization and extremism. 
These include notices of people trying to stop thinking 
completely, believing this to be the goal of meditation 96 
practice. In Taoist literature there is also mention of people 
who even try to stop breathing. The idea of "making the 
affliction itself into medicine" is characteristically Buddhist, 
also described in later Taoist literature as "temporarily using 
things of the world to cultivate principles of the Way." 
6. Here the "light of the eyes" rerers to awareness of the world 
at large, while the "light of the ears" rerers to furmless inner 
awareness. Here again the text makes it clear that there is 
no real boundary or difference between inside and outside: 
"They have the same source, but different names" (1iJo Te 
Ching). The practice of "turning back to the nature of hear­
ing;' which is one way of turning the light around, comes 
from the Heroic March Scriptun;> a Buddhist text popular 
among latter-day Chan Buddhist contemplatives and figur­
ing prominently in the technical procedures outlined in the 
Golden Flower text. 
7. To "let go" is to free the mind from entanglement in objects, 
but to "let go absolutely" is to f.t.ll into oblivion. Again the 
balance of "stopping" and "seeing" is critical to the success 
of the exercise. 
8. Taoist texts distinguish several levels of refinement accord­
ing to sound, but soundless breathing is considered best of 
all. Six audible breaths are used fur healing, while silent 
breathing is used for quiet meditation. Since mental silen<e 
is considered the best hygiene as well as the best curative, 
soundlessly subtle breathing is generally considered very 
important for both mental and physical aspects of Taoist 
practice. 
9. The term _ breathing is variously defined in Taoist litera­
ture; sometimes it is represented as respiration that is so 
subtle that it is completely unnoticeable, sometimes it is 97 
represented as the inner rhythm of awareness ordinarily 
obscured by the coarseness of thinking. 
10. This passage'makes it clear that practice of resting mind and 
breathing on each other is just a starting point. Such con­
centration exercises are only temporary expedients, but 
cultists sometimes perform them routinely for years on 
end. A fiunous Chan poem says, "When the wine is always 
sweet, it lays out the guests;' meaning that overindulgence 
in concentration and consequent addiction to calmness can 
actually incapacitate the individual fur further 
development. 
11. The Book of Balance and Harmony says, "By keeping energy 
complete you can nurture the mind. To keep energy com­
plete first requires that the mind be clear and calm. When 
clear and calm, there are no thoughts, so energy is complete." 
12.-13. The metaphor of the hen incubating an egg is com­
monly used in Chan Buddhism to represent continuous 
attention. 
14. The Book of Ba/ance and Hamumy says, "Of old it has been 
said, always extinguish the stirring mind, don't extinguish 
the shining mind. The unstirting mind is the shining mind, 
the mind that does not stop is the wandering mind?' 
16.-20. It is so much easier to notice distraction when sitting 
quietly than when engaged in activity that people often fuel 
their minds to be more scattered than usual when they 
begin to sit quietly. Oblivion is a much more difficult 
problem, not only beeause of its nature as unawareness but 
also because contemplative. are often unconsciously 
attracted to it. Distraction, in contrast, is so annoying that 
it naturally provokes the desire to overcome it. Therefure 
Thoism traditionally emphasizes the importance of using 98 
both stillness and movement in developmental exercises, to 
avoid &lling into either extreme. 
23.-27. Not looking or listening does not mear1 not seeing or 
hearing. It is a matter of being spontaneous rather than 
contrived. The text again makes it clear that this is not 
introversion as understood by Jungian psychology. In par­
ticular, paragraph 27 shows that this practice is not a matter 
of attention to subconscious mental activity, as Jung seemed 
to think. 
28. Fixing the length of time for meditation can have negative 
effi:cts, turning what is supposed to be a liberative tech­
nique into an automatizing ritual. Japanese Zennists and 
their Western imitators often seem to think of sitting medi­
tation in quantitative terms, but in the golden flower teach­
ing quality is the foremost consideration. According to 
National reacher Muso Soseki, one of the early greats of 
Japanese Zen, the establishment of fixed periods of sitting 
meditation was originally a matter of discipline, instituted 
during the Middle Ages to cope with large numbers of 
monastic inmates who had entered Zen orders for 
economic or sociological reasons. 
V. Errors in Turning the 
Light Around 
1. "There are many pitfulls in front of the cliff of withered 
trees" is an adaptation of a Chan Buddhist saying. The cliff 
of withered trees stands fur a state of nonthinking quies­
cence, from which standpoint it is easy to f.ill unawares 
into deviations. Wilhelm translates "in front of the cliff of 
withered trees" as "befure you reach the condition where 
you sit like a withered tree before a cliff." This may give the 99 
misleading impression that the "withered tree" condition is 
the goal. 
2. Chan Buddhism tended to become increasingly simplistic 
as time went on, and it was generally not systematized to 
the same degree as 'Thoist alchemy. There was also a tradi­
tional reluctance in Chan Buddhism to speak much about 
psychic states. 
4. This passage combines Taoist and Chan Buddhist warnings 
against qnietism. "Don't sit inside nothingneSs or indi1!er­
ence" is a common Chan Buddhist expression. Wilhelm 
misconstrues it as "One must not sit down (to meditate) in 
the midst of frivolous affirirs," which is in a sense antitheti­
cal to the actual meaning of the expression. The Buddhist 
term neutmll'OitJness is insetted in a note in the original teXt. 
5. This is another caution against quietism or nihilism; 
"letting go" is not to be exaggerated into oblivion. 
6. Both Completely Real Taoism and Chan Buddhism com­
monly warn against becoming enthusiastic or excited in 
anticipating experiences in meditation, since this agitates 
the mind and stimulates subjoctivel'rojections, thus retard­
ing progress. Wilhelm translates, "Nor must the thoughts 
be concentrated on the right procedure." This is a misread­
ing of the words, and a misleading idea. 
The parenthetical comments in my translation are also 
notes in the original text. "You can get it by intent that is 
not willful" is translated by Wilhelm as "If one can attain 
purposelessness through purpose." It is not clear what he 
thought this meant. The idea of"purposelessness~ seems to 
have appealed to C. G. J ung insofar as he rebelled against 
the materialistic interpretation of pragmatism characteristic 
of his own culture, but the Taoist teXt means no such thing. 100 
7. Wilhelm's rendition of this passage is also murky, largely 
because of the use ofa number of Buddhist terms that he 
did not understand. This was unfortunate for Jung, who in 
his meditative fantasies quite evidently did "fall into the ele­
ments of body and mind, where material and psychological 
illusions take charge." Although Jung admits that he never 
fOllowed the directions of the Golden Flower (which may 
be just as well considering the quality of the translation), 
neverrheless it is tempting to speculate on what would have 
happened had there been an accurate version of the text 
available to him. 
8. This passage is added to balance the foregoing warning 
about becoming deadened through malpractice; one should 
not become senseless, yet neither should one pursue 
objects. As ever, balance in the center is the keynote. 
9. "Loose ends" tend to come up "for no apparent reason" in 
quietude because of heightened awareness and lowered 
inhibitions. Wilhelm translates "the realms ofform and 
desire" (a Buddhist term) as "the world of illusory desires." 
Again this was unfortunate for Jung, who showed a marked 
inability to distinguish between the realm of form and the 
realm of desire. This tended to skew his interpretations of 
fantasies and led him to imagine that golden flower medi ta­
tion is culture-bound in spite of his belief in universal 
archetypes. 
10. People who enter into contemplative practices without this 
sort of theoretical preparation are easily deluded by unusual 
psychic experiences. Jung, himselfa prime model of this, 
projected his imaginations on Taoism and thus believed 
that the teaching of the golden flower came from "abnor­
mal psychic states." This false belief may be arrributed 
parrly to Wilhelm's inexpert translation of the text, but 101 
it also seems to be due in large measure to Jung's own 
arbitrary ideas and personalistic interpretations. 
VI. Authenticating Experiences 
of Turning the Light Around 
1. Wilhelm mistranslates "cannot be undergone responsibly by 
people with small faculties and small capacities" as ''one 
must not content oneself with small demands." The ques­
tion of capacity is extremely important in the teaching and 
practice of Taoist alchemy. In his introduction to the text, 
Wilhelm asserts that "as far as the Chinese psyche is con­
cerned, a completely assured method of attaining definite 
psychic experiences is available." If the expression "definite 
psychic experiences" is supposed to mean authentic realiza­
tion of the golden flower awakening, this statement would 
seem absurd in the context of Buddhism and Thoism. A 
more accurate reading of the text would have clarified 
Wilhelm's confusion on this point; it is a matter not of "the 
Chinese psyche" in general, but of the faculties and capaci­
ties of the individual. Jung would also have done well to 
observe the warning of the text that ''you cannot handle 
attainment with a careless or iUT<lgaht attitude," for the 
careless arrogance of his essays on the Golden Flower hin­
dered him from a more serious and sober investigation of 
Taoism as much as did lack of resources. 
2. Zhang Boduan (Chang Po-tuan), fOunder of the Southern 
School of Completely Real Taoism, wrote of a similar expe­
rience in his Introduction to Alchemy: "The pores are like 
after a bath, the bones and circulatory system are like when 
fast asleep, the virality and spirit are like husband and wife 
in blissful embrace, the earrhly and heavenly souls are like 
child and mother remembering their love." 102 
3. "Myriad pipes arc all silent" refers to a mental state of pro­
fOund quietude; "rhe bright moon is in mid sky" refers to 
clear awareness within stillness. Both are common metaphors 
in Taoism and Chan Buddhism. 
4. This passage refers to the refinement of sensory experience 
realized through the golden /lower practice. The "filling of 
the body" with stored energy is said to be sufficient in itself 
to preserve health and well-being, even without physical 
exercise. "Red blood becoming milk" is a common Taoist 
symbol of the sublimation of passion. 
S. The ViSllalizatWn SCliptu'" is a popular Pure Land Buddhist 
text, the Cuan Wuliangshou jing (Scripture on visualization 
of infinite life). There are many examples of Taoists borrow­
ing and reinterpreting Buddhist symbolism, some of them 
more plausible than others. The H"i Ming Ching, a small 
fragment of which is included in the Wilhelm/Baynes ver­
sion of the Colden Flower, provides numerous instances of 
Chan Buddhist sayings borrowed by Taoist yogis and given 
esoteric interpretations in terms of Taoist energy work. 
"Higher good is like water" comes from the Tao Te Ching. 
6. The Buddha on the terrace of enlightenment is the essence 
of one's own mind. The VisualizatWn Senpum itself says, 
('When you see Buddha, you are seeing your own mind; 
for mind is Buddha, mind makes Buddha." 
7. Wilhelm translates "the spirit enters into a state of open­
ness" as "the gods are in the valley:' giving the text a prim­
itive polytheistic sound that is not there at all in the 
original. It was evidently on the basis of this sort of mis­
translation that Jung came to the conclusion that the con­
cepts of Chinese philosophy are, as he said, "never taken 
psychologically." Nothing could be further from the truth. 103 
As a result of his misconception about the nature of Taoist 
practical philosophy,)ung thought that he himself w~ a 
pioneer in psychological interpretation; but since he clid 
not understand the original Taoist concepts to begin with, 
his attempts to interpret them psychologically were based 
on his own imaginations and not on the real meanings of 
the ideas as they are understood by Taoists themselves. 
8. "The empty room producing light" is an expression from 
the famous ancient Taoist classic Chuang-tzl<. This is one of 
the quotations from that classic commonly used by practi­
tioners of the Complete Reality school of Taoism, who 
found it a fit metaphor for one of their experiences in quiet 
ineclitation. Chan Buddhists tend to downplay the feelings 
of such experiences as remoteness, clarity, and suffusion 
with light, for two main reasons. One is that such experi­
ences are just signals of something and not goals in them­
selves. The other is that the impression they nevertheless 
create on the mind can be so strong that "the spoils of war 
are lost through celebration." 
9. The image of ascent is ofren used in Taoist literature. Sun 
Bu-er, one of the great female adepts of Completely Real 
Taoism, concluded her classic collection of poems with this 
verse on "flying": 
At the right time, just out of the valley 
You rise lightly into the spiritual firmament. 
The jade girl rides a blue phoenix, 
The gold boy offers a scarlet peach. 
One strums a brocade lute amidst the flowers, 
One plays jewel pipes under the moon. 
One day immortal and mortal are separated, 
And you coolly cross the ocean. 
(from Imnurrtal Sist=) 104 
10. The Buddhist meditation manual known as Small Swpping 
and Seeing was mentioned earlier. This passage refern to a 
more complete manual by the same author known as Great 
Swpping and Seeing. 
11. "When people drink water, they know for themselves 
whether it is cool or warm" is a common Chan Buddhist 
expression used to illustrate the fact that there is no way to 
communicate or understand realization of spiritual awaken­
ing except by one's own personal experience. 
12. "A grain, and then another grain, from vagueness to clar­
ity" is an often-quoted line from Four HundrM Wordr on the 
Gold Elixir, a shon work by the founder of the Southern 
School of Completely Real Taoism, Zhang Boduan (Chang 
Po-tuan). Liu I-ming explains, '''Grain after grain' means 
that when the basis is established, the path develops and 
the positive energy gradually grows. It does not literally 
mean there is the form of grains" (The Inner Teachings of 
7iuJism). 
13. In his classic Understanding R£ality, Chang Po-tuan also 
writes, "Truly it is said of a grain of the gold elixir that a 
snake that swallows it is immediately transfurmed into 
a dragon and a chicken that eats it is then changed into a 
phoenix, flying ihto the pure realm of true yang." Liu 
I-ming explains, "When yin and yang combine into one, 
the celestial order is clearly revealed; the innate knowl­
edge and capacity which had been about to fade away in 
people is round and bright, clean and bare. A bead of 
gold elixir hangs in the center of vast space, lighting up 
the universe to view, unobstructed in all directions. When 
people ingest a grain of this elixir, they immediately 
become immortals." 105 
VII. The Living Method of 
Turning the Light Around 
A "living method" is one that is efficiently adapted to individ­
ual needs and integrated into everyday life. A "dead method" is 
one that is performed mechanically as an automatic routine. 
Chan Buddhist proverb says, "Study the living word, not the 
dead word." 
1. "You need not give up your normal occupation." According 
to his own writing, Jungwas of the opinion that yoga prac­
tice needs an ecclesiastical setting. Some professional Japa­
nese Zennists also share this belief, and many Western 
Zennists fullowing latter-day Japanese schools have there­
fore come to believe that Zen has traditionally been a 
primarily monastic movement. The fact that ecclesiastical 
operations generally call more attention to themselves than 
individual practitionern, who "hide their light" according to 
classical recommendations, has given Westerners the false 
impression that monasticism represented the mainstream of 
Eastern spiritual practice. 
2. As the furmless practice ofturning the light around is 
repeated in the midst of everyday alF.Urs, the mind becomes 
increasingly fluid and buoyant, able to engage in ordinary 
activities without getting stuck on things. 
3. The keynote of this passage is "not sticking to any image of 
person or self at all." According to his own repom, Jung 
was fascinated by the images that came to mind when he 
tried to meditate according to his own method, which he 
apparently believed to be similar to that of the golden 
flower. Inasmuch as this son of preoccupation is rigorously 
proscribed in Taoist meditation texts, it is no wonder at all 106 
that Jung's work shows no indication that he really experi­
enced anything like the golden flower awakening. 
"If you can look back again and again into the source of 
mind, whatever you are doing" is rendered by Wilhelm as 
"When in ordinary life one has the ability always to react to 
things by reflexes only," which is not only technieally incor­
rect but potentially dangerous. "Turning the light around 
wherever you are" is translated by Wilhelm as "circulation 
of the light arising out of circumstances." This small mis­
reading of the words is greatly misleading if it means that 
the practice depends on circumstances. 
4. Although the practice lacks power if it cannot be carried 
out in the midst of activity, it becomes easier if a quiet time 
is set aside early in the morning to refresh and orient the 
mind in turning the light around. "The realized ones in 
Heaven will surely come to attest to your experience" 
means that higher or more refined levels of awareness 
become accessible to consciousness, experientially proving 
the efficacy of the practice. 
VIII. The Secret of Freedom 
Wilhelm translates the title of this section as "A Magic Spell for 
the Far Journey." He tends to read weird and superstitious ideas 
into the text. Then again, it was not unusual ror people of his 
time to expect Eastern ideas to be exotic and mysterious. The 
word translated as "magic spell" actually means a spoken teach­
ing, or a secret teaching. It also comes to mean "secret" in the 
everyday how-to sense of what is essential for success in accom­
plishing something. As ror "the fur journey," this expression, 
which literally means "roaming" and really means "freedom of 
action," is the title of the opening chapter of ChUlU'tf-tzu, one 
of the most popular Taoist classics. 107 
1. Jadelike purity is one of the "three purities," which are said 
to be reahns of higher awareness to which Taoist adepts and 
immortals ascend. Thus they are representative of sources 
of inspiration ror latter-day Taoist texts received through 
medi urns in trance. 
According to Liu I-ming, "White snow symbolizes the 
energy of the primordial unity; this is like the metaphor of 
'white light arising in the empty room.'" That this white 
snow flies in "midsummer" means that it is manifested in 
the "fire" of consciollsness. 
The "sun blazing" symbolizes positive energy, ''water" 
stands for real knowledge hidden within, and "midnight" 
represents proround stillness. Thererore "the sun blazing in 
the water at midnight" means the emergence of the positive 
energy of real knowledge from the depths of quietude. 
The receptiPe is the I Ching symbol ror mother earth. Liu 
I-ming says, "If people can be flexible and yielding, hum­
ble, with self-control, entirely free of agitation, cleared of 
all volatility, not angered by criticism, ignoring insult, 
docilely accepting all hardships, illnesses, and natural dis­
asters, utterly without anxiety or resentment when mced 
with danger or adversity, then people can be companions 
of earth" (Almkening to the 1iuJ). 
2. "The homeland of nothing whatsoever" is another expres­
sion from the Taoist classic Chuang-tzu. It appears at the 
end of the first chapter, "Freedom," after which this section 
of the Golden Flower text is named: in the ancient dassic, 
the philosopher Chuang-tzu says, "Now you have a huge 
tree and worry that it is useless. Why don't you plant it in 
the vast plain of the homeland of Nothing Whatsoever, 
roaming in effortlessness by its side and sleeping in freedom 
beneath it? The reason it does not full to the axe, and no one 
injures it, is that it' cannot be used. So what's the trouble?" 108 
3. "To act purposefully without striving" is translated by Wil­
helm as "action through non-action." It is not certain what 
he meant by this. Wilhelm renders "indifferent emptiness" 
as "numbing emptiness;' which could be right except ror 
the impression it conveys that "emptiness" is irself"numb· 
ing." This expression should rather be rendered as "numb 
emptiness." Only "numb emptiness" is "numbing:' not real 
emptiness as understood ~d experienced in Buddhism and 
Completely Real Taoism. Here again, acquaintance with 
Buddhist thought would have helped Wilhelm to under­
stand the point of this passage. 
4. The "center" is explained in the notes to paragraph 15 of 
Section III; the "two eyes" are explained in the notes to 
paragraph 4 of Section III. The "handle of the stars" refers 
to the crux or key of awareness, by which self-mastery and 
autonomy are attained. 
5. The alchemical symbol of metal or lead is explained by Liu 
I-ming in his commentary on Chang Po-tuan's Four HUIl­
tired Words on the Gold Elixir in these terms: "Lead is dense 
and heavy, hard and strong, lasts long without disintegrat­
ing; what is called true lead here is not ordinary material 
lead, but is the formless, immaterial true sense of real 
knowledge in the human body. This true sense is out­
wardly dark but inwardly bright, strong and unbending, 
able to ward off external afflictions, able ro stop internal 
aberrations. It is symbolized by lead and so is called the 
true lead .... Because its light illumines myriad existents, 
it is also called the golden flower. Because it is the pivot of 
creation, it is also called the North Star. Because it conceals 
light within darkness, it is also called metal within water" 
(The Inner Teachings of Taoism) . 
6. The "lower two passes" are the first two stages of a tradi-109 
tional formulation of Taoist spiritual alchemy: "refining 
vitality into energy," and "refining energy into spirit." The 
"upper pass" is the stage of "refining spirit into openness." 
At this point "Heaven directly divulges the unsurpassed 
doctrine" in the sense that knowledge comes spontaneously 
through elevation of consciousness rather than by formal 
learning. 
7. The "outside" is surface consciousness, the "inside" is the 
"true sense of real knowledge" hidden below. To "control 
the inside fium the outside" means to reach deliberately for 
this real knowledge and stabilize its connection with con­
sciousness. To "control the olltside from the inside" means 
to be rooted in real knowledge and thereby spontaneously 
control the activity of the consciolls mind. The "master" 
is the true sense of real knowledge; the "assistant" is the 
consciolls mind. 
8. The akstial mind is a Taoist term for what Chan Buddhists 
call the original mind. This refers to the mind as it is in its 
pristine state unaffected by temporal conditioning. 
9. This section of the text, particularly from this passage 
onward, is more thickly veiled than ever in the garb of 
Taoist alchemical language. Here the meaning becomes 
ambiguous in the sense that it can be interpreted in terms 
of the waterwheel exercise of Taoist energetics so popular 
in the Southern &hool of Complete Reality, or in purely 
spiritual terms characteristic of Chan Buddhism and the 
Northern &hool of Complete Reality Taoism. In terms of 
energetics, the "chamber of 'Water" means the lower abdo­
men, where energy is built up for circulation. In spiritual 
terms, the "chamber of lVater'" refers to the true sense of real 
knowledge hidden within temporal conditioning. I have 
italicized water because it stands for one of the main signs IlO 
of the I Chi'1!1, consisting of one solid (positive) line sur­
rounded by two broken (negative) lines: in Taoist alchemy, 
this represents the primal hidden within the temporal. 
10. The I Ching sign forftn:, which represents consciousness, 
consists of two positive lines surrounding a negative line. In 
this case, the negative line represents temporal conditioning 
ruling consciousness. The sign fOr the creative) which repre­
sents the enlightened mind, consists of three positive lines. 
Fire is in substance the creative in the sense that conscious­
ness is itself enlightenment; but this is not realized because 
of the influence of mundane conditioning. 
11. "Negative energy stops" because the exercise of turning 
the light around vitiates the powet of conditioned thought 
habits. 
12. The joining of the positive energy in lVat<r and the creative 
means the reuniting of conscious knowledge and real 
knowledge. The "basic chamber" is the center, which again 
may be interpreted psychophysiologically or spiritually. 
Wilhelm renders "the positivity in water)) as "the polarized 
light-line of the Abysmal;' which is not very meaningful 
and certainly does not convey the sense of the positivity, 
creativity, or celestial nature of the "light" that the text 
emphasizes. 
13. The movement of creative energy hecomes "traceless" and 
"indiscernible" in the sense that the ecstasy accompanying 
the initial mating of consciousness and the true sense of 
real knowledge later subsides in favor of a more subtle 
expenence. 
14. "Living midnight" is a Taoist term for a state of profound 
mental stillness and quietude that is nevertheless pregnant 
with primal energy, preceding the "dawn" of resurgent III 
light. The restless "human mind" is stilled so that the clear 
"celestial mind" may come to light. Wilhelm translates "liv­
ing midnight;' which is an extremely common expressio~ 
in this sort of Taoist literature, as "the time when the child 
comes to life." 
15. The images of the master becoming a servant and taking 
the servant for the master are common in Chan Buddhism. 
In Taoist terms, this means that the mundane conditioning 
of the "human mentality" comes to govern the whole mind 
and is consequently mistaken for the self. 
16. The root of heaven and moon cavern are alchemical tenns for 
the movement of energy emerging from stillness and 
returning to stillness. They can also be expressed as the 
points of shift from passivity to activity and from activity to 
passivity. 
17. In alchemical language, the positive creative energy of 
unconditioned primal awareness must be consciously 
"culled" or "gathered" when it emerges from the shrouds of 
unconsciousness. If it is not gathered, or if it is gathered 
too late, the positive energy is ineffective and mundane 
conditioning reasserts its power. 
18. In Thoist energetics, "the chamber of the creativtl' is the 
head: energy is drawn by attention upward from the lower 
torso (the chamber of wat<r) through the spine and into the 
head. In purely spiritual Taoism, the energy of the initial 
stirring of the "celestial mind" of unconditioned awareness 
is fostered until it becomes complete awakening, as symbol­
ized by the creative. Focusing on the crown of the head is a 
method of enhancing alertness (to prevent quiet stillness 
from slipping into oblivion) and is only ror temporary use 
at appropriate times. 112 
19. In energetics, the "yellow COUrt" is the middle of the body, 
where the energy is conducted after passing through the 
he.ad. In spiritual practice, this means that heightened 
~wareness is centered to keep the mind from floating off 
mto lItter abstraction. 
20. In Chan Buddhism this experience is described in terms of 
"melti'ng" (( I lei " . di . or lin oc ng to In cate a transitIOn from 
bondage to freedom. 
21.-25. The six senses are the faculties of seeing hearing tasting 
smelling, feeling, and thinking. Not using ~he six s~nses is ' 
believed to be the most excellent form of hygiene, both 
mental ~~d physical, practiced by Taoists to restore and pre­
serve spmt and energy. Paragraphs 21 to 23 describe three 
levels of profundity in experience of the same exercise; 
paragraph 25 illustrates their interpenetration. This scheme 
of three stages, each also containing three, or a total of 
nine, stages, derives from the teaching of the ninth-century 
Chan master Linji, who was regarded as the founder of vir­
tually all the lines of Chan Buddhism extant at the time of 
the writing of The Se,"'t of the Golden Flower. 
26. The three and nine stages are spoken of in relation to the 
subjective experience of the practitioner, but all are objec­
tlvely of the same source. The "interval of a world cycle" 
means the mterval between stirting of mind and return to 
quiescence. 
27. '~ction caused by momentum is random action, flot essen­
tial action;' This means that one should learn to act objec­
tively, first quieting the mind so as to be able to act from a 
state of cool clarity rather than by impulse. Wilhelm trans­
lates, "One moves the movement and forgets the move-113 
ment; this is not movement in itself." It is not clear what 
he thought this might have meant. 
28. ''This does not contrast the action of Heaven to the nature 
of Heaven" in that it does not consider stillness superior to 
action; both action and stillness are pan of the total enlight­
enment as long as they proceed from the primal uncondi­
tioned source of mind rather than from temporal habit. 
29. Desire as considering things to exist or desire as being p0s­
sessive toward things are typically Buddhist definitions. 
Desireas thought that is out of place and based on ulterior 
motives is a typical ne<>-Confucian definition. 
30. Wilhelm translates "spontaneous attention" as "a move­
ment withollt purpose:' and "acting without striving" as 
"action through non-action." Neither of these expressions 
hits the mark, but from the point of view of cross-cultllral 
studies it is significant to take note of them as reflections of 
standard misconceptions of Eastern mysticism. 
31. In paragraph 10 of this section, the yin line inside the sym­
bol ofjin is understood as "false yin;' which means mun­
dane conditioning. Here it is understood as "true yin," 
which means calmness. The operation referred to as "taking 
from Imler to /ill infiri' consists of replacing the negative 
line (temporal conditioning) insidefin (consciousness) with 
the positive line (real knowledge) inside Imler (the depths 
of the unconscious). This funnula comes from the alchemi­
cal classic UndermuuIing R£a/ity, which says, "13ke the solid 
in the heart of the position of mom; and change the yin in 
the innards of the palace of fin. From this transfunnation 
comes the sound body of h_ (the c.....m.)-to lie hidden 
or to fly and leap is all up to the mind." Liu l-ming 114 
explains, "The solid in the heart ofthe position of ""''''' 
is the real knowledge in the mind of Tao; the yin in the 
innatds of the palace of ]ire is the conscious knowledge of 
the human mind. Take out the reality-knowing mind of 
Tho that has fallen into water and with it replace the con­
sciously knowing mind in the palace of fire. In a short time 
the yin (temporal) energy will rlissolve and the yang (pri­
mal) energy will return, and you will again see the original 
mce of hamm, recovering your original nature of innate 
knowledge and innate capacity, tranquil and unperturbed 
yet sensitive and effective, sensitive and effective yet 
tranquil and unrlisturbed." 
32. The "breeze of wind" symbolizes gradual penetration 
through fullowing an initiatory process. Here it means the 
use of fucused consciousness to gain access to real knowl­
edge hidden in the unconscious. 
33. "Nurturing the fire" means developing consciousness by 
calm and flexible receptivity. 
34. Bathing is also a key alchemical term. Accorrling to The Book 
of BRIana "nd HRmwny, in the higher type of gradual 
method "bathing" means "being sulfused with hatmonious 
energy;' while in the very highest type of alchemy it means 
"cleaning the mind." 
35. The expression "stopping at ultimate good" comes from 
the ancient Confucian classic DtIxue (m Hsueh; The Great 
Learning) and is commonly em ployed in later Taoist alchemi­
cal texts. "The infinite" is a Taoist and neo-Confucian tenn 
for the state of aVlaI'Cness prior to discurnive discrimination. 
36. ''Activating the mind without dwelling on anything" is a 
famous line from the populat Buddhist Diamond Cutter 
Scripture. The sixth parriatch of Chan Buddhism is said to us 
have become enlightened on hearing this line of scripture 
being recited as he was passing through a marketplace. 
As fur "effi:cting openness," The Book ofBtdlma and 
HRmwnysays, "Thoism, Buddhism, Confucianis?,-all 
simply transmit one openness. Throughout all bm~ ~ose 
who have transcended have done the work from Within 
openness. Openness and sincerity ate the essence. of . 
alchemy, learning Buddhism is merlitation pl~g Into 
openness; and as fur learni~ the affiUrs ofCon~~ sages, 
selflessness in openness clarifies the celestial des.gn. 
37. Again Wilhelm proposes a mislearling translation: "to be 
unminrling in all situations" he render.; as "~rever dwelling 
in purposelessness." It is likely that Jung denved some.of 
his more bizarre ideas about Eastern philosophy from Just 
such mistranslations as this one. In the beginning of Sec­
tion VI it says that in order to develop the capacity ~o 
undergo the experience of the golden flower awakerung 
responsibly it is necessaty to will the libera~~~?f all . 
beings; so the very idea of "purposelessness IS Incompan­
ble with this practice. Although Wilhelm transl.ates that 
part somewhat clumsily, nevertheless the m,:"ru~g does 
come through there; appatendy it slipped hIS ~In~ w~en 
he came to this section. The term wuxin (unrrunrling) IS a 
common Chan Buddhist expression. 
38. "Contemplating emptiness, the conrlitional, :md the c~n­
tern is a fundatnental merlitative exercise ofT13ntal (I"Ien­
t'ai) Buddhism. Again Wilhelm shows virtually comt'lete 
ignorance of Buddhism in any c~~text~ut:tan~ :"est-
clich" translating "the conrlinonal as delUSIon, In em.., I' reality, the conrlitional per se is not delusion; d~ USlon 
means to mistake the conrlitional fur a fixed or indepen-
dent reality in itself. 116 
39.-43. Paragraphs 39 to 43 present what may be the simplest 
and most concise statement of this Tiantai Buddhist prac­
tice to be fuund anywhere: the point is to achieve a state of 
centered mental poise wherein both the fluidity and fuctu­
ality of phenomena are evident to the mind without either 
exerting an overwhelming influence toward bias. 
According to this way of meditation, by realization of 
fluidity the mind transcends attachment to conditional 
things; by realization of fuctuality the mind transcends 
attachment to emptiness. By realization of the center, one 
attains a harmonious unity of freedom and responsibility. 
In Tiantai Buddhism the accomplishment of this practice is 
called "three insights in one mind." 
44. Fire is spirit, _tzr is vitality. Alchemists sometimes say that 
Buddhism starts with fire while Taoism starts with __ 
45. Here "the two eyes" is meant litetally. There is a strong ten­
dency to place great emphasis on the data of sight in every­
day life, so the text makes it clear that all the fuculties of 
sense and perception are channels of enlightened awareness. 
The third patriarch of Chan Buddhism wrote, "The six 
senses aren't bad, they are the same as true awakening." 
46. This means that the true sense of real knowledge, which 
in ordinary people fulls into abeyance in the unconscious, 
must be "resurrected" by consciousness through the 
exercise of deliberate attention. 
47. The darkness in the sun is true yin within true yang, 
flexibility within firmness. 
48. The white of the moon is true yang within true yin, 
firmness within flexibility. 
49. A verse in the alchemical classic Underrtanding Rmlily says, 117 
"The sun, in the position of fire) turns into a woman; wain; 
in the moon palace, turns out to be a man." 
IX. Setting Up the Foundation 
in a Hundred Days 
This and the following three sections, comprising the rest of 
the text as it is found in the canonical version on which the 
present translation is based, are entirely omirted by Wilhelm in 
his rendition, because he considers them of "inferior quality." 
He does not explain, however, the basis of this evaluation. 
While it is true that these last four chapters go back to basics 
again and again, this is in fuct a genetal characteristic of the 
whole text, which repeatedly reviews fundamental theory and 
praxis as it develops the details of their experiential implica­
tions. It may be that the difficulty of these sections, which 
contain relatively high concentrations of Buddhist and Taoist 
technical terms, discouraged Wilhelm from attempting to 
translate them. 
1. There are a number of scriptures with the generic Mind Seal 
title in the Taoist canon. The practice of one hundred days 
setting up the foundation to stabilize consciousness is com­
mon in Taoist alchemy. Here when the text says "you are 
still working with the light of the eyes;' this means that at 
the outset a practitioner is using ordinary consciousness, 
not the refined consciousness referred to by the terms 
"spirit;' "essence:' and "wisdom." 
2. "Intercourse" and "formation of the embryo" are standard 
alchemical images. Chang Po-tuan's classic Four Hundred 
Wonir on the Gold Elixir says, "When husband and wife 
mate, clouds and rain furm in the secret room. In a year 118 
they give birth to a child, and each rides on a crane." Liu 
I-ming explains, "Our real knowledge is yang within yin; 
this is the 'husband.' Our conscious knowledge is yin 
within yang; this is the 'wife.' After the primal yang in peo­
ple culminates, acquired conditioning takes over affairs, and 
the real gets lost outside, as though it lived in another 
house and did not belong to oneself. Though one may 
have conscious knowledge, the wife does not see the 
husband; yin being without the balance of yang, this con­
sciousness has fulsehood in it. If the husband, real knowl­
edge, is recognized and called back home to meet the wife, 
conscious knowledge, and taken into the privacy of the 
secret room, the husband loves the wife and the wife loves 
the husband; husband and wife mate, sense and essence 
combine, so the primal energy comes forth from within 
nothingness and congeals into the spiritual embryo" 
(The Inner Teachings o[Taoism). 
When the text says that "if you entertain any concep­
tual view at all, this is immediately a misleading path;' this 
means that conceptual views are products of the temporally 
conditioned consciousness and thus deviate attention from 
the primal essence of consciousness. Chan Buddhism is 
well known for insistence on detachment from conceptual 
views in order to "perceive essence and attain 
Buddhahood." 
3. Generally speaking, references to points or periods of time 
in alchemical literature refer not to clock or calendar time 
but to psychological time. Intense condensation of experi­
ential time is also characteristic of mental concentration in 
the alchemical process. In his classic Understanding Reality, 
Chang Po-tuan writes, "Changing hours for days is the pat­
tern of the spiritual work." Liu I-ming explains, "Devel­
oped people, emulating the image of the sun and moon 119 
meeting, place thirty days within one day, and also place 
one day within one hour: in one hour activating strong 
energy, they use the human mind ro produce the mind of 
Tao, use the mind of Tao to govern the human mind, pro­
duce real knowledge by conscious knowledge, and purge 
conscious knowledge by real knowledge; they gather the 
undifferentiated primal energy for the mother of the elixir, 
and follow the spiritual mechanism of the transformations 
of yin and yang as the firing process." 
4. Empowerment refers to the stabilization of the higher con­
sciousness so that one can turn the light around at will in 
any and all circumstances. This may require a period of spe­
cial effort, represented by the hundred days setting up the 
foundation. 
5. In both Chan Buddhism and the Northern School of 
Completely Real Taoism, "seeing essence:' direcdy experi­
encing the essence of consciousness in itself, is temporarily 
set up as an aim for those who are bound up in the prod­
ucts of consciousness and thereby alienated from its essence. 
After "seeing essence" is attained, it then becomes a means 
rather than an end: a means offreeing mental energy for 
further development. Because "seeing essence" can give a 
false sense of confidence before the union of conscious 
knowledge and real knowledge is matured, enlightened 
guidance is needed. The classical statement of this principle 
in Chan Buddhism says, "First awaken on your own, then 
see someone else." Here the text says "everything that 
emerges naturally from essence is tested" in the sense that it 
is necessary to examine the subsequent activity of con­
sciousness for remaining taints of compulsive mental habit 
ruled by mundane conditioning. This is one of the most 
important functions of a guide. 120 
X. The Light of Essence and 
the Light of Consciousness 
The distinction between "the light of essence" and "the light of 
consciousness" is critical to Sllccess in the practice of Taoist 
alchemy or Chan Buddhism. Paragraph 1 in Section II makes 
this clear when it says, "Only the true essence of the original 
spirit transcends the primal organization and is above it." 
It is unfortunate that Wilhelm did not translate this tenth 
section, because if properly understood it would have been of 
inestimable value to J ung, who was evidently unable to make 
the critical distinction in his own experience. Indeed, Jung docs 
not seem to have even had a clear theoretical grasp of this issue; 
what he assigns to the "unconscious" would in Taoism still be 
considered part of the consciousness of the human mentality, 
not the essence that "transcends the primal organization." 
An orren-quoted classic verse on this subject by the great 
ninth-century Chan master Changsha clearly defines the central 
importance of the distinction between the "light of conscious­
ness" and the "light of essence" in these tenns: "When people 
who srudy the Way do not know reality, it is just because they 
have been giving their recognition to the conscious spirit all 
along: this is the root ofbeginningless eons of birth and death, 
yet fools call it the original being:' From the point of view of 
the traditions of Chan Buddhism and Completely Real Taoism, 
Jung's confusion on this point is evident throughout his com­
mentary on the Golden Flower and other rexrs rrom Asian 
spiritual teachings. 
1. In modern times, followers of sectarian Zen and Taoism 
have come to lay great stress on sitting meditation, but clas­
sical masters have pointed out that addiction to stillness can 
have serious mental and physical drawbacks. If the practice 
of "turning the light around" is carried on only in specific 121 
settings or postures, it may be impossible to integrate it 
fully with everyday life, leading to a kind of split in the 
personality. 
2. This passage makes it clear that the "light" of essence has 
nothing to do with visionary experiences. BoJhan Canchan 
jingu, a well-known Chan meditation manual dating fi'om 
about a century before the Golden Flower text, says, "If you 
see lights, flowers, or other extraordinary furms, and take 
this for sanctity, using these unusual phenomena to dazzle 
people, thinking you have attained great enlightenment, 
you do not realize that you are thoroughly ill. This is not 
Chan." 
3. The mirror being "occupied" by an image represents the 
attention being occupied b)' the contents of consciousness 
and thus losing sight of the essence of consciousness. This 
is also a good description of what happened to Jung when 
he tried to meditate and became mired in images arising 
fi'om his subconscious. 
4. The Yellow Emperor (Huang Di) is one of the major figUres 
of antiquity associated both with Taoism and with the 
founding of proto-Chinese culture. The "echoes" here sym­
bolize the thoughts or contents of consciousness; to say 
they are "not sound" means that thoughts ace not them­
selves the essence of consciousness, even though they arise 
from the movement of consciousness. 
5. The Heroic March &ripsun: (Sumngama-sulm) is a Buddhist 
text that became particularly popular among Chan Bud­
dhist contemplatives fi'om the Sung dynasty (960-1278) 
onward. The following passages of the Golden Flower text, 
paragraphs 5 to 10, briefly outline a meditation exercise 
fi'om that scripture, known as the "eigbt attributions," 122 
which is designed to facilitate "petCeption of essence" 
through a sott of process of elimination. The eight attribu­
tions are usually defined as follows: 
1. Light is attributable to the sun. 
2. Dark is attributable to the dark moon. 
3. 'fransmission is attributable to doors and windows. 
4. Obstruction is attributable to walls. 
5. Objects are attributable to discrimination. 
6. Blank openness is attributable to space. 
"7. Congestion is attributable to sense data. 
8. Clear light is attributable to clarity. 
By gtadually "peeling away" the contents of consciousness, 
the ptactitioner ultimately reaches the experience of the 
essence of consciousness. 
10. The eighth consciousness is a Buddhist term: it is also called 
the storehouse conscioumess. One aspect of the storehouse 
consciousness is its function as the repository of impres­
sions. This is close to what Jung calls the "unconscious:' 
but lung differs from Buddhism in considering the uncon­
scious a basic reality. A nother aspect of the storehouse con­
sciousness, which comes out after it has been clarified, is its 
function of "mirrorlike awareness." This is a basic experi­
ence of Buddhist transfonnation of consciollsness, but it is 
not final. In dealing with both aspecrs of the eighth con­
sciousness, Buddhist practice aims at "smashing through" it 
and removing fixation even on these levels of experience. 
Chan and Zen Buddhist litetature suggest that lung was 
most definitely not alone in getting bogged down in the 
eighth consciousness. Unlike the Chan and Zen Buddhists, 
however, lung was not fortunate enough to have authentic 
technicallitetature sufficient ro diagnose the problem. 123 
11. Sometimes the exetCise of turning the light around is 
described as looking to see where thought comes from, but 
this is not the same as the psychoanalytic exetCise oflook­
ing to see the unconscious roots of consciolls manifesta­
tions. In Chan ptactice, psychoanalysis comes after "seeing 
essence;' because it is only from the central standpoint of 
essence that the contents of consciousness can be witnessed 
objectively. 
12. "Flow and revolve" is a Buddhist expression for routine 
mental habit. The final passages of this section rerurn to 
the critical distinction between the "flowing and revolving" 
consciousness and the transcendental essence. This para­
graph makes it clear that even ((emptiness," when experi­
enced as an item of the conscious inventory, is still just an 
object, not the open essence of mind. Mistaking a feeling 
or state of "emptiness" for emptiness itselfis a psychological 
phenomenon often mentioned in Zen classics. 
XI. The Intercourse of Warer and Fire 
1. Here fin stands for conscious knowledge and water stands 
for real knowledge. The intetCourse of water and fire repre­
sents the union of the real knowledge of the mind of Tao 
and the conscious knowledge of the human mind. 
2. The yin inside fire stands for receptivity, and also for mun­
dane conditioning. The yang inside water stands for the 
firmness of the true sense of real knowledge. 
3. In his explanation of Chang Po-tuan's Four Hundred Wamr 
on the Gold Elixir, Liu I-ming says, "If you understand that 
the foundation of water and fire of real knowledge and con­
scious knowledge originally belong to one energy, and if 124 
you cultivate them backward, inverting water and fire, 
using real knowledge to control conscious knowledge, 
using conscious knowledge ro nurture real knowledge, 
water and fire balance each other, movement and stillness 
are as one; then mind is Tao, Tao is mind" (The Inner 
Teaehi"tP of 7lUJiJm). 
XII. The Cycle 
1. The Southern School of Taoism tends ro value the water­
wheel exercise, wherein a mass of energy is developed and 
circulated throughout the body. When the Golden Flower 
text says "energy is not the main thing," this is an indication 
of its roots in the Northern School under Chan Buddhist 
influence. 
2. The Book of Balance and Harmony says, "The North Star, 
never shifting, governs motion." It also says, "The North 
Star is the heart of heaven and earth;' and "When the 
human mind is calm and quiet, like the North Star not 
shifting, the spirit is most open and aware. For one who 
sees this, the celestial Tao is within oneself," 
3. "Culling" is just a metaphor; The Book of Balance and 
Hannony says, "The medicinal ingredients are just culled 
in non being." 
4. "Indulgence" is a Buddhist term for what Taoists call "leak­
ing," or the expenditure of conscious energy in pursuit of 
objects. 
5. Dragon and tiger, water and fire, are metaphors fur yin and 
yang. The meaning of this passage is not entirely clear, but 
It seems to refer to dilettantism. 125 
6. There are times of interaction and noninteraction of real 
knowledge and conscious knowledge as long as their union 
has not been stabilized. 
7. A poem entided "Combining Yin and Yang" in The Book of 
Balance and Harmony says, "To reach the Tao is basically not 
hard; the work lies in concentration. When yin and yang, 
above and below, always rise and descend, the ubiquitous 
flow of vital sense naturally returns of itself. At the peak of 
awareness, reality becomes accessible to consciousness; in 
recondite abstraction, nondoing joins with doing. When 
the clouds recede and the rain disperses, the spiritual 
embryo is complete; the creative principle comes into play, 
producing a new birth." 
8. Definitions of process and cycle are matters of method; at 
this point the means are transcended and there is no con­
scious fixation on expedient distinctions. According to 
Buddhist metaphor, this is like "leaving the raft behind on 
reaching the other shore." 
9. This passage reiterates the fundamental continuity of the 
individual and the universe, the identity of mind and the 
world it experiences. The third patriarch of Chan Bud­
dhism wrote in his funous Poem on 'll'IIsti"D Mind, "There 
is nowhere it is not; the ten directions are right befure the 
eyes. Most minute, it is the same as the great; you forget all 
about objects. Most great, it is the same as the minute; you 
do not see any outside." A p~verb common in both Chan 
and Taoist literature says, "It is so great that there is noth­
ing outside it, so small it enters where there is no space." 
Chang Po-tuan's alchemical classic Undemandi"D RmJity 
also says, "The essence of the self enters the essence of the 126 
enlightened; the essence of enlightenment is everywhere 
thus. From on high the cold light shines in the cold 
springs; one moon appears in a thousand ponds. Its small­
ness is smaller than a hair, its greatness fills the universe." 
10. Spontaneity is the real meaning of the Taoist technical term 
wtllvei, often mistranslated by Wilhelm and others as "non­
action" or "inaction." The Taoist classic Huainanzi (The 
masters of Huainan) , explains spontaneity in these terms: 
"Real people know without learning, see without looking, 
achieve without striving, understand without trying. They 
sense and respond, act when necessary, go when there is no 
choice, like the shining of light, like the emanation of rays?' 
11. "Clouds form'ing and rain fulling" is a standard metaphor 
deriving from the ancient classic I Chi,,!!. It represents the 
harmonious combination of yin and yang producing living 
energy, 
12. "Living midnight" is explained in the notes to paragraph 14 
of Section VIII. The term "true midnight" is relatively rare 
in alchcmicalliteraturc, as compared to ((living midnight." 
It is sometimes taken literally to mean the middle of the 
night, as a time of external quiet suitable for fostering inter­
nal stillness. Metaphorically, it stands for extreme tranquil­
lity; it is distinguished from "living midnight" in that the 
latter expression emphasizes the subtle presence of poten­
tial and the imminent awakening of positive energy. 
13. Understanding Rmlity says, "Real enlightenment has no like­
ness; a single round light engulfs myriad forms. The bodiless 
body is the real body; the formless form is the real form." 
14. Here it would seem that "midnight"is used as an equiva­
lent to the Buddhist term "emptiness;' which is experi­
enced right in the midst of forms. 127 
15. Following the Buddhist pattern, to "head for the true" 
means to cultivate perception of emptiness in the condi­
tional; "the living" then corresponds to the conditional in 
emptiness. 
XIII. Song to Inspire the World 
O. "Cinnabar heart" has a dual meaning. The word for cinna­
bar is also used for the color of cinnabar. The color of 
cinnabar is in the !amily of red, which is the color of com­
passion in Buddhism. This is the external meaning, which 
would probably be obvious in context even without knowl­
edge of this traditional association. In chemical terms, cin­
nabar contains mercury. In alchemical terms, mercury 
symbolizes the mercurial nature of consciousness, so cinna­
bar symbolizes the matrix of consciousness. 
Many of the expressions and ideas used in the verses of 
the following song have already appeared in the text, some 
of them more than once. There are a few, however, that are 
new or call for further comment in this context: 
I. By poise in the center it is possible to bear change as it per­
vades all conditioned things. 
2. The "mysterious pass" is defined by The Book of Balance and 
Harmony in these terms: "Sages just used the word 'center' 
to point out the opening of the mysterious pass. This 'cen­
ter' is it. Let me give you a convenient simile. When a pup­
pet moves its hands and feet and gesticulates in a hundred 
ways, it is not that the puppet can move. It is moved by 
pulling strings. And though it is a string device, it is the 
person controlling the puppet who pulls the strings. Do 
you know this person who controls the puppet? The pup­
pet is like the body, the strings are like the mysterious pass; 128 
the person controlling the puppet is like the innermost self. 
The movements of the body are not done by the body; it is 
the mysterious pass that makes it move. But though it is 
the action of the mysterious pass, still it is the innermost 
self that activates the mysterious pass. If you can recognize 
this activating mechanism, without a doubt you can 
become a wizard." 
3. Midnight stands for the moment of transition from rest to 
activity; noon stands for the moment of transition from 
activity to rest. The whole line means "all the time," but 
special attention is called to the transitions represented by 
midnight and noon, which Occur not only from day to day 
but also from hour to hour in action and rest and from 
moment to moment in thought. 
4. The "primal opening" is described by Chang Po-tuan in his 
Four Hundred Word! on the Gold Elixir in these terms: "This 
opening is not an ordinary aperture: made by. heaven and 
earth together, it is called the lair of spirit and energy" 
(The 1m"", Teachings ofTfWism). 
5. The "river source that produces the medicine" is an image 
from Chang Po-tuan's Understanding Reality, which says, "If 
you want to know the location of the river source which 
produces the herb, it is just in the southwest, its original 
homeland." Liu I-ming explains, "The southwest is the 
direction of earth) the realm where the new moon returns, 
where yin at its extreme gives birth to yang. In people, this 
is the time of beginning movement when stillness has 
reached its extreme. This movement from the extreme of 
stillness is precisely when the great medicine appears. How­
ever, this movement is not the stirring of emotions at exter­
nal influences, and it is not the stirring of thoughts in the 129 
mind. It is the movement of the innate knowledge of the 
natural mind, the movement of the real knowledge of the 
mind of Tao." 
8.-9. In psychophysiological Taoist energetics, "",uris associated 
with the genitals,ftre is associated with the heart: the inter­
course of water and fire is then defined as placing the atten­
tion (associated with the heart) in the lower abdomen 
(associated with the genitals). According to The Book of 
Rata ... e "nd Hat'l11lmX this practice is in the lower grade of 
gradual methods. The attitude toward this practice 
expressed here by The Doctrine of the Golden Flower is 
another typical indication of its purism. 
16. The "water-clarifying pearl" is a Buddhist metaphor for 
enlightenment, or for the pure mind. 
18. The "jade capital" is a Taoist symbol for the supreme spiri­
tual state. Nine is the number for yang, symbolizing positive 
energy in full bloom; dragons represent the inconceivable 
fluidity of spirit. 
20. In the terminology of! Ching symbOlism as it is used in 
Taoist alchemy, wind stands for accord and penetration; 
lightning is associated withftre, which stands for awareness 
and understanding. Together they form the sign called The 
Cauldron, which represents "producing illumination 
through following an initiatory process;' according to Liu 
I-ming's explanation in The 7l<oist I Ching. The symbol of 
thumkr is movement, specifically the initial activation of 
positive energy in the sense of real knOWledge. 
21. Here again it is made clear that the opening of the 
enhanced consciousness known as the golden flower is not 
a matter of routine performance of yogic exercises. 130 
The image of "retreating to hide in secrecy" is explained 
in The Book of Balance and Hamwny in these terms: "It is 
written, 'The sages used the Changes [the I Chill!fl to clean 
their hearts, and withdrew into recondite secrecy: What 
does this mean? It is the consummation of sincerity and 
truthfulness. The principles of the Changes extend 
throughout the macrocosm and the microcosm; sages pon­
der the principles of the Changes to clean their hearts and 
thoughts, and store them in ultimate sincerity.» 
22. The two poems used by Lu Yan when initiating Zhang 
Zhennu, who was to become a famolls Immortal Sister, a 
female Taoist adept, are quoted with an energetics-oriented 
interpretation in Spiritunl Alchemyfor Women. The original 
verses read, 
After midnight and before noon, 
Settle the breathing and sit. 
As the energy goes through 
The double pass at midspine 
And on through the brain, 
Gaining the power of energy 
Contemplate the self. 
You must find the ancestor of your own house. 
Thunder in the earth rumbles, 
Setting in motion rain on the mountain. 
Wait until washing, 
And the yellow sprouts emerge from earth. 
Grab the golden essence ofvirality 
And lock it up tightly. 
Fire metal and wood 
To produce the dragon and tiger. 
(Imm01ml Sisters) Translator} 
Afterword: 
Modern Applications of the 
Golden Flower Method 
For me the experience 
symbolized by the golden flower has always been a prac­
tical concern. This new translation of The Secret of the 
Golden Flower arose from a confluence of several courses of 
events. One of them was my own introduction to the 
golden flower practice of "turning the light around;' long 
before I knew of the existence of this particular book. 
Fincling that method of mindfulness extremely powerful 
and versatile, I subsequently spent many years studying its 
use in experience and looking for tested information 
pertaining to its objective application. 
Eventually this pursuit led to stuclies of classical 
sourcebooks in Chinese, Sanskrit, and Japanese. I began 
translating relevant texts from Buddhist and Taoist tracli­
tions, because I felt that their psychological insights could 
be useful in some way to people today, wherever they 
were. Although I had not read his views on the subject, I 
agreed with Jung that such infurmation should not be 
cloistered. Whoever we may be and whatever we may do, 
mind is at the heart of our lives; so the clarification and 
awakening of mind is of potential interest to everyone, in 
whatever walk of life. 
131 132 
For many years I focused on the study of Chan 
Buddhism, the Chinese precursor of Zen. Classical Chan 
appealed to me because it cut directly through to th~ 
essence of mind without being burdened by dogmatism 
or cultural accretions. 
One of the most interesting ways this is done in 
Chan classics is by concentrating the teachings o~ the . 
scriptures and schools of Buddhism into symbolic stories 
representing the underlying srate of mind. Many of these 
stories are specifically for turning the light around, and 
because of my early experiences I was particularly 
interested in them. The more difficult and complex 
Chan stories dealing with creative integration of the 
golden flower mind with the ordinary world required 
mental work in everyday life and took much longer to 
begin to penetrate. .' 
Eventually I learned to practice turnmg the light 
around according to the methods of all the major schools 
of Buddhism. At first I was most dramatically afiCcted by 
the Chan and Pure Land ways of awakening this con­
sciousness, but I subsequently found that the tech~iques 
of each school had their own advantages; so I contmued 
to apply whatever worked best whenever I had a special 
quest and wanted renewed inspiration. 
At the same time, I studied the various support s~s­
tems devised by the schools to enable people to experi­
ence the golden flower consciousness in meaningful ways. 
I found that this helped to clarify both practical and theo­
retical issues: what I was experiencing in everyday life and 
what I was finding in my researches in ancient Eastern 
literature on mind studies. 133 
It was in connection with this course of events that I 
came into contact with Taoism. In the years following my 
first exposure to Buddhist teachings,! looked into other 
Asian classical traditions such as Hinduism, Confucian­
ism, Taoism, and Sufism. I also read from the Bible, the 
Koran, and the mystic traditions ofJudaism and Chris­
tianity. During these studies I found that turning the 
light around revealed unsuspected dimensions in the liter­
ature of other religions. A transcultural, transdogmatic 
appreciation of the mental dynamic of religion became 
manifest in a very direct manner by means of this 
technique. 
My studies of world religions took place in several 
phases: The first phase of study was partly comparative, 
obsetvlng what was common to different religions and 
what was peculiar to each. This helped to distinguish 
local historical and cultural elements of religious presenta­
tions from perennial underlying concerns. I returned to 
these studies later, in connection with programs from the 
classical Pure Land, Zen, and Flower Ornament schools 
of Buddhism, each of which include investigation of 
other religions and philosophies as part of Buddhist study. 
It was through the last phase of intertraditional study, 
as part of the practice of the comprehensive Flower Orna­
me~t school of Buddhism, that I returned to the study of 
TaOism. This new phase of research into Taoism focused 
h~avily on inner alchemy, the processes of refining the 
mmd and body as a unit joined by will. This eventually 
led me to The Secret of the Golden Flower, which combines 
Taoist alchemy with basic mind work according to the 
designs of several schools of Buddhism. 134 
Over the years 1 had attempted to read the Wilhelmi 
Baynes translation of this important text several times, 
but found it inaccessible. Jung's commentary, moreover, 
seemed contradictory and confused. Giving up infrus­
tration, 1 finally began to look for the origmal Chmese 
work. . It proved possible to find a good text m a condensed 
collection of essential works from the TaOIst .canon, ~long 
with an authentic commentary on the practical applica­
tion of the teaching. By this time 1 had also read and 
translated other Buddhist and Taoist classics in the ances­
tral traditions of The Secret of the Golden Flower and there­
fore had become familiar with the techmcal terminology 
ofthe text. . The main difficulty of the original work is that It uses 
Taoist alchemical language mixed with several types of 
Buddhist Chinese. This undoubtedly caused Wilhelm 
confusion, because there were no facilities for teachmg 
these languages and symbol systems to Westerners at that 
time. On comparison with the canomcal version of the 
original Chinese text, it became clear that Wilhelm had 
misconstrued the text on many points, and his translation 
was unreliable. There are enough flaws in Wilhelm's readings of gran:'-
mar, terminology, and conceptual structures to render hiS 
translation practically dysfunctional. Perhaps sensmgthls, 
but attributing it to cultural differences, Jung went further 
afield in transmogrifying the central concepts of the t~xt. 
J ung warned his readers away from trying to practlc~ 
the secret of the golden flower, professing psychoanalYSIS 
to be its Western equivalent. His reasoning was that 135 
E~r?p~ans lacked the cultural basis for practicing Eastern 
diSCiplines and had to work with their own traditions. 
There is obviously. some truth to this part of the argu­
ment, and Buddhists have long said that teachings must 
be adapted to local psychological and social climates. I do 
n~t agree, however, that Jung's approach to the uncon­
SCIOUS outlined in his introduction to The SeCrtt of the 
Golden F/mver is actually equivalent to the golden flower 
practice. 
. ~ha~ J ~ng seems to have been against in reality was 
blind In:'ltatlon of tc;chniques, undertaken with the wrong 
motl.vatlons and attitudes. This is a useful warning, and 
h~ himself was aware that Buddhist proverb says the same 
thing. It IS not necessary to believe, however, that all 
Westerners will inevitably behave in this manner toward 
Eastern teachings. Furthermore, the behavior will not 
necessarily ch~n?e simply because its object is changed. 
The problem IS In the behavior, not in the object. 
Jung's case against Westerners trying to practice the 
golden flower m~thod would have been stronger if he had 
been able ~o clarlfy what was culture specific and could 
not .be Imitated usefully, and if he had adequately defined 
cultl~ behaviors that inhibit the efficiency of mind-purifying 
practices. But even so, he made a useful contribution to 
the study of this issue by raising doubts that needed 
expression and questions that called for examination. 
Many Westerners today have had more opportunity 
for e~posure t? Eastern teachings and to psychological 
stuclies of c.ultlsm t~an had Jung and his contemporaries. 
~ult behavlOr contmues to exist, nevertheless, so it is 
Important to clistinguish it from authentic spiritual 136 
practice. In order to do this, it is necessary to observe the 
cult mentality from the point of view of the golden flower 
and avoid confusing this process with observing the 
golden flower practice from the point of view of the cult 
mentality. 
Jung's goal of understanding religion in terms of psy­
chology was an approach that made religious teachings of 
all kinds more accessible to Westerners. Its full realization 
may have been thwarted by a combination of factors, 
including lack of sufficient data, due to which Jung was 
unable to understand Eastern teachings clearly and there­
fore could not come to definitive conclusions. Unaware 
that Taoists and Buddhists had themselves been interpret­
ing religion psychologically for centuries, Jung was unable 
to avail himself of their methods. 
The psychological approach to the study of religion 
is not itself invalidated, however, by the shortcomings in 
Jung's own practical work on Eastern teachings; on the 
contrary, it increases its validity with fuller and more 
accurate information and analysis. Jung's caveats about 
practice, therefore, should be understood in reference to 
cultism, which involves fixation and therefore cannot in 
any case foster authentic realization of golden flower mind 
blossoming. 
In his time J ung did not have access to materials that 
would have allowed him to make distinctions between 
normal and cultic practices of Eastern teachings, and he 
could not objectively judge the relative merits of the 
different exercises found in the corrupted version of The 
Secret of the Golden Flower rendered by Wilhelm. 137 
Furthermore, from sources such as Jung's introduc­
tion to the second German edition of The Secn:t of the 
Golden Flower, and works such as Siddhartha and MRgistcr 
Ludi by Jung's contemporary Hermann Hesse, it is evi­
dent that fragmentary imitation Eastern mystical cults 
were thriving in Europe between the first and second 
world wars. Jung's reservations about golden flower prac­
tice were as much held in reaction to events in his own 
cultural milieu as they were based on his impressio'ns of 
the text itself. 
This fact seemed particularly significant to me, partic­
ularly insofar as one of the factors involved in my own 
long-standing interest in Chan and Zen Buddhism was 
the practice of transcending religious and cultural forms 
to get at the heart of reality in itself by direct experience 
and direct perception. While it is true that there are ritu­
alized Zen cults with highly cloistered and involuted atti­
tudes, these are generally examples of imitations described 
long ago in the classics of Chan and Zen, and as such they 
do not impugn the validity of the original teachings 
themselves. 
Cultism, scholasticism, and cultural traditionalism 
aside, I believe that the essence of Chan is one of the 
most potentially useful elements of the golden flower 
teaching, and of Buddhism in general, in the context of 
the modern West. In addition to its psychoactive tech­
niques, the psychological and intellectual structures of 
Chan lore can be superlative analytic tools that enable the 
mind to distinguish the inner patterns of things. Of 
course, their ultimate value in practice depends upon how 138 
effectively they are employed, as in their application to 
The Seent of the Golden Plower. 
The theory and practice of the golden flower method 
do exist in Greek and Christian tradition, but if they are 
to be usefully analyzed in secular psychological terms, 
without an abundance of philosophical or religious con­
cepts, I believe this can be most easily accomplished. by 
means of Chan devices that require no background m 
Chinese culture to understand or employ. 
The Secrr:t of the Golden Plower represents a way of 
approaching completeness of energy through .complete~ 
ness of mind. This teaching calls itself a "special transmis­
sion outside of doctrine;' free from attachment to dogma 
and fOrm based on direct perception of the essence of 
mind and recovery of its inherent potential. This is the 
hallmark of Chan, which is sometimes called the school 
of the enlightened mind. . 
For practical purposes, a distinction is made m the 
golden flower teaching betwe~n the "~riginal spirit" and 
the "conscious spirit." The onginal spmt IS the fOrmless 
essence of awareness; it is unconditioned and transcends 
culture and history. The conscious spirit is the mind-set 
of feelings, thoughts, and attitudes, conditi~ned by . 
personal and cultural history, bound by habIt to speCific. 
fOrms. These terms are employed in both Chan and TaOISt 
traditions. 
Intuition belongs to the original spirit; intellect . 
belongs to the conscious spirit. The essence of TaOism ~s 
to refine the conscious spirit to reunite it with the Origi­
nal spirit. In Chan Buddhism, the primal original spirit is 
also known as the host, while the conditioned consCIOUS 139 
spirit is known as the guest; the original spirit is the mas­
ter, and the conscious spirit is the servant. In these terms, 
self-delusion occurs when the servant has taken over from 
the master; self-enlightenment takes place when the 
master is restored to autonomy in the center. 
The idea of two minds or two aspects of mind is 
fOund early on in the ancient Taoist classic Tao Te Ching: 
"Using the shining radiance, you return again to the light, 
nor leaving anything to harm yourself. This is called 
entering the eternal." Here is an image of an ideal rela­
tionship between the original spirit as the source of power 
and the conscious spirit as a subordinate functionary. 
When clarified, the conscious spirit functions according 
to the situation without usurping the authority of the 
original spirit. The original spirit remains available as the 
reserve of total awareness, to which the conscious spirit 
returns without leaving any harmful fixation on itself or 
its objects. 
In this way the intellect functions efficiently in the 
world without that conscious activity inhibiting access 
to deeper spontaneous knowledge through the direct 
intuition of a more subtle faculty. 
The operation of switching from the limited mind of 
conditioned consciousness to the liberated mind of primal 
spirit is known as the method of "reversal," or turning 
around the light. In The Seeret of the Golden Plower these 
terms refer to restoration of direct contact with the 
essence and source of awareness. 
This direct contact empowers the individual to know 
spontaneously and be free from bondage to created 
thoughts and conditioned feelings, even while operating 140 
in their very presence. In the words of the Tao Te Chi,!!!, 
one can thus be "creative without possessiveness." 
In both Taoism and Buddhism, the term turning the 
light around means turning the primary attention from 
involvement in mental objects to focus on the essence or 
source of mind. This exercise is practiced as a means of 
clearing consciousness and freeing awareness. 
Many of the Taoists who had the strongest affinities 
with Chan Buddhism relied heavily on the exercise of 
turning the light around. Although this exercise is found 
in all Buddhist schools, it was particularly emphasized in 
Chan Buddhism. The Semt of the Golden F10lVer represents 
one of the most radical of these spirit-based methods. 
Virtually the whole text is devoted to the subtleties of 
this simple practice of reversal or turning the light 
around. 
There are numerous Chan, Zen, and Taoist sources 
con raining descriptions of tips and techniques for induc­
ing, exercising, and integrating the experience of the 
golden flower blossoming. The fundamental premise and 
practice are suggested in the plainest terms in the teach­
ings ofDahui (Ta-hui), a famous Chan Buddhist master 
of the twelfth century: "Good and bad come from your 
own mind. But what do you call your own mind, apart 
from your actions and thoughts? Where does your own 
mind come from? If you really know where your own 
mind comes from, boundless obstacles caused by your 
own actions will be cleared all at once. After that, all sorts 
of extraordinary possibilities will come to you without 
your seeking them." 141 
There are also many Chan stories for initiating the 
golden flower exercise. Some of them are very simple, but 
they can be used over and over again. 
A srudent asked a teacher, "What is Buddha?" 
The teacher said, "This mind is Buddha." 
A srudent asked a teacher, "What should one do when 
arising and vanishing (of though ts) goes on unceasingly?" 
The teacher said, "Tsk! Whose arising and vanishing is it?" 
Once a teacher asked a student, "Where are you from?" 
The srudent said he was from such and such a place. 
The teacher asked, "Do you think of that place?" 
The srudent said that he often thought of it. 
The teacher said, "The thinker is the mind, what is 
thought ofis the environment. In the environment are moun­
tains, rivers, land, buildings, people, animals, and so on. Now 
turn your thought around to think of the thinking mind; are 
there SO many things there?" 
T~ese Chan structures illustrate some of the ways that 
attenoon can be arranged to induce the golden flower 
experience. It may be possible to apply this use of mind 
to psychotherapeutic theory and practice by means of its 
transcendental understanding of the self, its method of 
experiencing the self beyond the quirks ofpersonality, 
and its concentration on the elemental source of 
autonomy and self-mastery. 
To the therapist, the golden flower teaching offers 
techniques of developing deeper insight and greater 
awareness of human potential, as well as a means of con­
tacting patients at a level of mind that is not affected 142 
by psychic afflictions. To the patient, it ~f!e;~:~i:~?en­
dent means of self-knowledge beyond t e . . 
Ii . dent and opmlon. conditioned persona ty,)U gm , y life 
properly used, in the context of co:tl:mt~~ra~ctice of 
and not as an exoti.c, half-unde.rs~o~~sc th; pow~r to clispel 
olden flower meclitatlon certam Y . tl under-
~he influence of neurotic .co;pul~IOn·!:t~a:e the dan­
stood and correctly pramcbe ,It ~e~oes not submit to 
Jun attributed to It ecause I . 
~~ fasci~ation of what he referred to as unconsclOUS 
contents of mind. . . t around is in fact so 
The exercise of turnmg the ligh d that it . 'ght and transcen ence 
penetrating an aven.ue to m~1 in its theory and practice to 
is temptmg to conSIder app y g f e of the more 
the search for clirectlon 10 treatment 0 som _ 
. clisorders currently being addressed by the psy 
senous ." conclitions such as those 
chiatric commumty, cnppling . schizophrenia, 
w known as acute mamc depreSSIon, 
no . I ality clisorder. 
psychosis, and mUltl.p e perso~owever that it would be 
It must be kept 10 mmd, '.. fBuddhism 
completely foreign to the teaching and spmt 0 be . d or practice can 
and Taoism to suggest that any I ea ., I . h t ny spmtua exer-
regarded as a cur,: for all Ills, ~~~u: t~e desired regen era-
cise can automatically brmg . d f the 
tion regardless of the mentality and attltu eO 
practitioner. I f ient Buddhist and 
In the traditional psycho ogy? a~c Iden 
Taoist schools, psychoactive exercIses like the go . c 
flower were part of comprehenSIve programs, not magt 
wands all-powerful in themselves. 143 
To say that greenery needs light, earth, air, and water 
does not climinish the importance of any of these elements; 
but it may be necessary to emphasize the importance of 
one or another when it is missing or insufficient. 
For ancient methods of mental development to be 
naturalized in the West, they themselves will have to be in 
working order to be able to respond and adapt to local 
needs; and there will have to be ways of expressing and 
addressing those needs effectively in the context of the 
new cultures. This is why clinical and descriptive psychol­
ogy have become avenues for the exploration offorrnerly . 
esoteric knowledge relating to the nature of experience. 
To consider the question of how the golden flower 
method could shed light on clues to the understancling 
and treatment of mood and personality clisorders, it is 
useful to work with the Chan concept of host and guest, 
a simple concept corresponcling to the Taoist clistinction 
between the original spirit and the conscious spirit. 
From the point of view of the host, or original spirit, 
everything concerned with mood and personality is in the 
domain of the guest. But through the process of social 
conclitioning, the average inclividual comes to be centered 
in the guest and therefore regards it as the self. As a result 
the true host is concealed, and it cannot bring out its 
more objective and encompassing perspective on matters 
of mood and personality. 
When the guest has taken over center stage and the 
host is no longer in sight, the "switching" that takes place 
within an inclividual in response to psychological and 
environmental factors is taking place from one mood or 144 
personality to another; it does not return all the way to 
the source. The individual can then no longer command 
the capacity to switch deliberately from a subjective mood 
or sub personality to an objective and impersonal state of 
observant mind. 
Thus alienated tram the primal source or "host" of 
the original spirit, the ego seeks integration by attempting 
to establish order among "guests;' the conditioned fucades 
of psyche and personality. Under these conditions, if 
there develop great disparities among moods or subper­
sonalities in the absence of ability to "return to the light" 
of the original mind, then dysfunction and breakdown 
may result when the strain of attempting to maintain rela­
tiv~ order overstresses the natural resilience of the fuculty 
of mind playing the part of the receptionist or answering 
service, for the host. Although the host must be there, 
it is now hidden and does not respond directly. 
Considered in this light, the ability to experience the 
pure self of the original mind and t~e ~apacity to return 
to it at will can be of fundamental slgmficance m the psy­
chic life of the individual. Even as the conditioned mind 
goes from state to state in the course of changing circum­
stances, the golden flower technique provides a means of 
searching out the host behind the scenes to gain direct 
input from its creative energy and inspiration. 
This host, or original spirit, can occasionally be 
glimpsed in the space between temporal shifts of ~ood or 
personality, but it generally takes practlce to stablhze It 
and use it deliberately. The result of this "ctystallization" 
is a boundless source of potential. If applied with knowl­
edge and without obsession, the method of the golden 145 
flower can. be o~ us: not only to the psychotherapist, but 
to the ordinary mdivldual as well; because mind is the 
pivot of all acts and events, its illuminating effects touch 
on every fucet of life. 
There is a great deal of knowledge relating to the use 
of ~Iden flow~r consciousness in the teachings of Bud­
dhlsts and Tamsts. These teachings were constructed to 
assist in orientation of mental exercises, and they need to 
be understood in terms of their own structure in order to 
work according to their own design. 
In this sense, the need for adaptation does not mean 
that essential patterns can be distorted. Orientation is as 
important as the exercise itself, for disoriented meditation 
does more harm than good. 
Seen in this light, traditional Buddhist and Taoist 
materials on this subject are not propaganda to inculcate 
religious belief but blueprints of mental functions drawn 
to provide direction in the understanding and application 
of psychoactive exercises. 
For application of the golden flower mind-awakening 
method, one of the most useful instructional devices in 
Chan Buddhist teaching explains the "two minds" in terms 
of "four relations between host and guest." To focus them 
in the mind. all at once, these fuur relations are expressed 
m mnemomc phrases: the guest within the guest; the 
host within the guest; the guest within the host· the host 
within the host. ' 
. The ~est within the guest is the state of the ordinary 
mmd gomg from one mood, state, or subpersonality to ' 
another, alienated from conscious contact with the host 
behind the scenes. 146 
The host within the guest is the first stage of turning 
the light around, when contact with the original mind 
is established even as the individual is passing through 
shifting moods and personalities. 
The guest within the host is a more mature level of 
attainment, at which the individual can enjoy free access 
to thought and its products, including ideas, moods, and 
personalities, withour being deceived by them or bound 
to them. 
The host within the host is the original spirit itself, 
the primal source of consciousness in which is found the 
hidden "turning point" on which psychIC liberty hmges. 
In one sense, conscious experience of the host within the 
host follows realization of the host within the guest; yet 
in a deeper sense the host within the host is not only at 
the pinnacle but even at the basis of the total expenence 
of golden flower practice. . . 
There are also certain stories from Chan and 1aOlst 
tradition that are used to orient and sensitize the mind to 
this "turning point" in such a way that the capacity to 
"switch minds" is brought within reach of the ordinary 
consciousness. A few have already been mentioned. 
One of the more dramatic examples of such stories 
is based on a folk tale about a young woman who was 
betrothed to a man she didn't love. She ran away to live 
with her true lover, but eventually died. When her man 
returned to their hometown after her death, he found 
that in the experience of the people there she had been at 
home all the while, having taken to her sickbed shortly 
after her betrothal. 147 
In modern terms, the paraUe.1 with emotional division 
between outer and inner life is obvious; but can we ask, 
without assumptions, which one was the phantom? 
A Chan master said, "The. girl had split souls; which 
was the real one?" 
If we say she was reilly at home, yet she live.d with her 
lover; if we say she was with her lover, yet she was lying 
abed at home. 
The Chan answer is that both conditions, both 
"selves;' were guests of a formless host. 
Another master said, ''If you can awaken to the real 
one herein, you will know that leaving one state of being 
and entering another is like staying at an inn." In psy­
chological terms, this would suggest that the individual 
who realizes the true host can enter and exit thoughts, 
feelings, moods, and personalities at will, being cen­
tered in the primal spirit and thus not subject to 
control by the contents of conditioned states of 
consciousness. 
One of the great advantages of using such stories to 
jog the mind is that the very act of remembering the pos­
sibility of "switching" already places psychological distance 
between host and guest, thus dispelling to some degree 
the mesmeric influence of thoughts, feelings, moods, and 
personalities. 
A parallel story from Taoist tradition is the famous 
butterfly dream of the sage Chuang-tzu. In this classic 
tale, the philosopher relates that he dreamed he was a 
butterfly, having a wonderful time fluttering about from 
flower to flower on the zephyrs of spring. 148 
k ' from this pleasant reverie, however, he 
On awa enIOg hether he was a man longer sure w found that he was no b rfl or whether he was a 
ho had dreamed he was a utte y, w , he was a man, 
butterfly noW drea~lIng, 'tS superficial question of 
The issue of thiS story I,sdnot'fyl the self but is in the , t to I entl as 
which pSyc~IC conte~ s to the "turning point" revealed 
act of recalling attention rm\css "opening" or "aperture" 
in between ~tates, the ~e1f of the formless host can be 
through which the rea 'nd freedom, , ed in its own punty a , 
seen and expenenc, 'bl to detach from condl-
h' it IS POSSI e ' By t IS means , , 'thout thereby becomIOg , d identities WI , tloned states an I f dinary expenence, Thus 
dissociated from the rea moor t renewal from the very 
the individual can always resort 0 
source of creativity, , t the "root of , , T' ts call returnIOg 0 This IS what aOlS h' h tradimensional vantage h " from w IC ex heaven and eart , 'higher enlightenment 
, 't' possible to expenence 
PoIOt I IS Id 'd of the mundane wor ' right in the ml st I' h d' reality there is no rea-, b ompise m , If this can e acc mood swings or , such as extreme son why psychIC events Id me control of individuals 
personality changes sh~u ~su ling handicaps, Even if 
to the extent of becomlO~ ~np~ ryalone it can still 
this practice is understoO 10 t eOh 10"" ;hat will allow , n human psyc 0 oJ offer a perspective 0 'd ental approach to the 
for an objective and nonJu gm f od and personality 
understanding and treatment 0 mo 
extremism, 'Ie away from golden 
Jung's reasons for warn,lbnlg Pbeaos~d on what he per-
, were ostenSI y , flower practice, 'bTt)' It was his behefthat 
ceived as cultural lOcompati I I ' 149 
Europeans of his time lacked the proper psychological 
basis for the yogic practices of Chinese, Indian, and 
Tibetan religions, Therefore Jung thought it only reason­
able that Westerners should not imitate Eastern methods' , 
and he underscored his point with a proverbial Buddhist 
warning about incorrect use of practices, 
J ung quarrelled not with the method of the golden 
flower, but with the Western attitude toward technology 
of any kind, His remarks on the Western mentality sug­
gest avenues of study, but he does not examine the cultic 
behaviors that make imitation methods ineffective, Had 
he done so, Jung could have found that neither the reality 
nor the imitations of spiritual practices are limited to East 
or West, . 
Furthermore, J ung does not show how his method is 
actually equivalent to the golden flower practice, Apart from 
the fact that he was faced with a garbled translation of a 
corrupt text with the last fcw chapters missing, J ung was 
admittedly preoccupied with expounding his own theories, 
Jung's concern with the problems of cultural differ­
ences led him to believe that the golden flower practice 
developed from Chinese tradition, in spite ofthe fact that 
he had evidence of its existence in Western tradition, Jung 
apparently misunderstood descriptions ofthe exercise 
partly because of Wilhelm's mistranslation and his own 
lack of experience, 
To deal fully with J ung's treatment of the golden flower 
teaching would lead us afield from the point of this work, 
which is to expose the original teaching itself, Thc purpose 
of mentioning Jung here is to reopen a door of inquiry by 
questioning the limits ofthe limitations he presumed, 148 
On awakening from this pleasant reverie, however, he 
found that he was no longer sure whether he was a man 
who had dreamed he was a butterfly, or whether he was a 
butterfly now dreaming he was a man. 
The issue of this story is not its superficial question of 
which psychic contents to identifY as the self but is in the 
act of recalling attention to the "turning point" revealed 
in between states, the formless "opening" or "aperture" 
through which the real self of the formless host can be 
seen and experienced in its own purity and freedom. 
By this means it is possible to detach from condi­
tioned states and identities without thereby becoming 
dissociated from the realm of ordinary experience. Thus 
the individual can always resort to renewal from the very 
source of creativity. 
This is what Thoists call returning to the "root of 
heaven and earth;' from which extradimensional vantage 
point it is possible to experience higher enlightenment 
right in the midst of the mundane world. 
If this can be accomplished in reality, there is no rea­
son why psychic events such as extreme mood swings or 
personality changes should assume control of individuals 
to the extent of becoming crippling handicaps. Even if 
this practice is understood in theory alone, it can still 
offer a perspective on human psychology that will allow 
for an objective and nonjudgmental approach to the 
understanding and treatment of mood and personality 
extremism. 
J ung's reasons for warning people away from golden 
flower practice were ostensibly based on what he per­
ceived as cultural incompatibility. It was his belief that 149 
Europeans of his time lacked the proper psychological 
basis for the yogic practices of Chinese, Indian, and 
Tibetan religions. Therefore Jung thought it only reason­
able that Westerners should not imitate Eastern methods; 
and he underscored his point with a proverbial Buddhist 
warning about incorrect use of practices. 
J ung quarrelled not with the method of the golden 
flower, but with the Westcrn attitude toward technology 
of any kind. His remarks on the Wcstern mentality sug­
gest avenues of study, but he does not examine the cultic 
behaviors that make imitation methods ineffective. Had 
he done so, Jung could have found that neither the reality 
nor the imitations of spiritual practices are limited to East 
or West. . 
Furthermore, Jung does not show how his method is 
actually equivalent to the golden flower practice. Apart from 
the fact that he was faced with a garbled translation of a 
corrupt text with the last fcw chapters missing, J ung was 
admittedly preoccupied with expounding his own theories. 
Jung's concern with the problems of cultural differ­
ences led him to believe that the golden flower practice 
developed from Chinese tradition, in spite of the fact that 
he had evidence of its existence in Western tradition. Jung 
apparently misunderstood descriptions of the exercise 
partly because of Wilhelm's mistranslation and his own 
lack of experience. 
To deal fully with Jung's treatment of the golden flower 
teaching would lead us afield from the point of this work, 
which is to expose the original teaching itself. Thc purpose 
of mentioning J ung here is to reopen a door of inquiry by 
questioning the limits of the limitations he presumed. ISO 
J ung's ideas on the golden flower, and their sig­
nificance in relation to Western thinking about Eastern 
thought, are more fruitfully treated in the context of his 
total work on Eastern subjects. Nevertheless, they provide 
a useful counterpoint to the original tradition when high­
lighting psychological practicalities of the golden flower 
exercise. 
One reason for this is that Western versions of Eastern 
mental exercises active during the sixty years that have 
elapsed since the original publication of The Secret of the 
Golden Flower have been informed in part by Jungian 
interpretations of Eastern practices. 
Among the problems that Westerners have tradition­
ally faced in working with Eastern meditation practices is 
the fear that mind-stilling exercises will prevent them 
from thinking thoughts that they need to think. This is 
also a concern in the East, where there are many warnings 
in meditation lore to avoid excessive stilling. 
There are two main objects to stopping thought in 
Buddhist tradition. One is to open up space to clarify 
rhought by distinguishing compulsive habitual thought 
from deliberate logical thought. The other is to clear 
room for the conscious operation of non conceptual 
insight. Practitioners are carefully warned to avoid becom­
ing intoxicated by the peaceful tranquillity of thought ces­
sation; as the Chan proverb goes, "stagnant water cannot 
contain the coils of a dragon." 
The golden flower practice can stop thought tem­
porarily, but it does not warp reason. It enables one to 
think deliberately rather than compulsively. This use of 
mind opens a wider space for thought, with the ability to lSI 
think and observe thought with detached clarity, so that 
one can put down useless thoughts and take up useful 
thoughts by means of independent discernment and will. 
The speed of its direct perception can also see at a glance 
where a train of thought will lead, conserving untold 
mental energy. 
With any exercise that stills the mind, at first there is a 
tendency for random thoughts and images to occur with 
seemingly greater-than-ordinary frequency and strengrh. 
J ung became aware of this phenomenon and attempted 
to exploit what he thought was its potential as a means 
for exploring the unconscious. He was also aware of dan­
ger in this, and he stresses this danger in his works on 
both Eastern and Western alchemy. 
In golden flower practice this problem is avoided by 
relinquishing all obsession with thoughts and images 
that come to mind in the course of the exercise. It is 
only after the actual awakening or blossoming of the 
golden flower has taken place that examination of men­
tal phenomena with detached objectivity is considered 
possible. Before this breakthrough, too much introspec­
tion of psychic contents is viewed as a distraction from 
the primary purpose of arriving at the source of awareness 
itself. 
Golden flower exercise is not focused on forms of 
images or ideas, and in that sense it is not and cannot 
be culture bound. For this reason it is not peculiarly 
Chinese, nor is it known and practiced by Chinese people 
in general through the influence of their cultural heritage. 
To adapt a practice to a new cultural setting is one 
thing; to turn it into something fundamentally different 152 
is another. In order to benefit from whatever is useful in 
Eastern teachings, they need to be reduced to their 
essence and allowed to develop in their new environment. 
What is necessary is the primal psychological seed, not 
the temporal cultural husk. 
Taoist and Buddhist teachings explain that their struc­
tures and terminologies are not sacred in themselves, but 
are means of arranging attention to elicit extra potential in 
vision, being, and action. Independent perception and 
autonomous conduct are not general ideals in the Confu­
cian and Hindu societies within which Taoism and Bud­
dhism existed; they are part ofa transcendent interior 
culture that has no national boundaries. 
. The opening statement of The Secret of the Golden 
Flower includes the provision that people should establish 
a firm foothold in the ordinary world before they try to 
cultivate the blossoming of the golden flower. This means 
that they should be able to function adequately in their 
own culture and society, whatever that may be. The 
golden flower practice is not primarily a therapeutic 
method for severely unbalanced people; it is a way of 
higher development for ordinary people. 
Yet it is also true that some forms of neurosis are built 
into civilized society itself, and many ordinary people 
suffering slightly from mild neuroses are well integrated 
with their everyday world. The reason why the golden 
flower method is not particularly recommended for 
severely neurotic people, or for people with schizoid or 
psychotic tendencies, is that the enhanced receptivity 
and sensitivity fostered by the practice might exacerbate 
feelings of illness and fear. 153 
The thoughts and images that compel the neurotic 
and psychotic could become more overpowering in the 
early stages of golden flower practice, when the "demons" 
of thought assail the mind as it relaxes its conscious set in 
anticipation of the attempted switch-over to nonconcep­
tual awareness. Getting past this stage to experience 
penetrating insight into the essence and source of aware­
ness itself, not associated with any content at all, would 
be key to any help the golden flower method could offer 
the severely unbalanced in finding a way out of their hells. 
If people with uncontrollable mental problems do 
turn to the golden flower method for help, they could be 
better off with the guidance of therapists who have them­
selves experienced the original mind of humanity and can 
calmly view the various realms of thought and perception 
as so many planets in a vast and enclless space. For their 
part, therapists to the mentally bedeviled need the unat­
tached ~u~yancy and independent objectivity of pene­
tratmg mSlght, so the golden flower exercise could be 
useful to them in a very direct way in the investigation 
of processes of mental illness and liberation. Works Cited 
Chang Po-tuan. Understanding Reality: A Taoist Alchemical Clas­
sic. Translated by Thomas Cleary. Honolulu: University of 
Hawaii Press, 1987. 
Liu I-ming. The Inner Teachings of Taoism. 1hnslated by Thomas 
Cleary. Boston: Shambhala, 1986. 
Liu I-ming. The Taoist I Ching. Translated by Thomas Cleary. 
Boston: Shambhala, 1986. 
Liu I-ming. I Ching Mandalas. Translated by Thomas Cleary. 
Boston: Shambhala, 1988. 
Liu I-ming. Awakening to the Tao. Translated by Thomas Cleary. 
Boston: Shambhala, 1988. 
Imnwrtzll SistErs. 1hnslated and edited by Thomas Cleary. Bos­
ton: Shambhala, 1989. 
Li Daoqun. The Book ofBa/ance and Harmony. 1hnslated by 
Thomas Cleary. San Francisco: North Point Press, 1989. 
Zen Essence. 1hnslated and edited by Thomas Cleary. Boston: 
Shambhala, 1989. 
The Secret of the Golden F/Qwer: A Chinese Book of Lift· funslated 
and explained by Richard Wilhelm, with a commentary by 
C. G. Jung. funslated from the German by Cary F. Baynes. 
San Diego: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1961. 
J ung, Carl G. PsychotwJ a"d the East. Translated by R. F. C. 
Hull. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1978. 
154 